### Technology and the Workforce

#### A
The technological transformation of the workplace, in industry, the service sector and traditionally white-collar jobs, threatens to have a largely negative impact on global employment as more and more jobs are automated. Automation is not only inevitable, it is already happening in many industries, and politicians and economists around the world are considering whether it will be at all possible to mitigate its negative effects, the most pressing of which is the possibility of mass unemployment. The threat of robots taking over people's jobs was once the theme of science fiction, but ofr many people it will become a reality within the next decade.

#### B
This shift towards mechanisation can be traced back to the Industrial Revolution, the precursor to the digital age, which initiated a symbiotic relationship between technology and humanity that has now extended into every area of daily life. The Industrial Revolution ushered in the replacement of hand-production methods with machine-based processes. In general, these innovations had of hand-production methods with machine-based processes. In general, these innovations had a positive effect on the economies of industrialised nations, which experienced sustained growth for an unprecedented period of time. However, in the mid-29th century the widespread shift to masss production techniques made many unskilled factory jobs obsolete, starting a trend that continues today.

#### C
In the 1970s, the advent of the personal computer marked the beginning of the 'Digital Age', and in the developed world there was a transition to a high-tech economy based on computerisation. Not only manufacturing, but services and communications were made far more efficient and convenient than ever before. While a lot of people enjoyed this unpreceduented convenience, technological innovation also disrupted many service sector jobs; typists, switchboard operators, and production-line jobs have largely disappeared, and many of the skilled jobs that were once a middle-class domain are now also threatened by automation.

#### D
This is a trend that is set to increase dramatically over the next ten years. Employability in the modern age will be very much contingent on technical ability, whether in terms of programming or other computer-related skills. Many prominent tech figures have already come forward to suggest that people should 're-skill' by learning how to write computer code or create algorithms, and there is already a lot of emphasis on teaching those skills to young people. However, it remains to be seen whether there will be enough coding jobs to replace the massive amount of jobs which will be lost to automation, especially since computers are able to do many coding jobs themselves.

#### E
One solution that has been suggested as a means of mitigating mass unemployment is to introduce a universal basic income, in which all citizens of a country receive an unconditional sum of money every month. This radical idea has gained many supporters among economists, but it is doubtful whether politicians have the will to put in place such a drastic measure. The issue of how to fund such a pay out, particularly since tax revenues will drop with the lower employment rate, is a complicated one. However, as more and more people find themselves out of work because of automation, governments around the world will have no choice but to act.