#### A
A special feature of the mammals of Australia is that they all happen to be marsupials. A total of 159 Australian marsupial species are currently identified, an overwhelming number that is unique in the world. Another distinctive characteristic is that the mammalian megafauna of Australia tend to be smaller than other large mammals around the world. Commonly, the term megafauna refers to animals that weigh over 100 kilograms. But because Australian mammals are smaller, biologists have amended that threshold to include the Australian fauna that have a body mass of 45 kilos or greater.

#### B
However, this diminutive size has not always been the case. The fossil record shows that megafauna in Australia once thrived, but eh largest animals died out around 45,000 years ago. For years, the leading theory was that humans killed off the megafauna by overhunting. This hypothesis is accepted by professor Gifford Miller, who participated in a study of sediment core samples. His team focused on the presence of a fungus spore in the dung of large herbivores, and found that the spores were abundant before plummeting in the few thousand years leading up to the extinctions. Because the region also shows signs of human habitation by 50,000 years ago, the reserchers inferred a causal relationship between human settlement and loss of megafauna.

More recent arguments blame climate change. Larisa DeSantis of Vanderbilt University claims that climate change led to the demise of megafauna. She and her team studied changing patterns in fossil teeth of large herbivores. By comparing the isotopes stored in the tooth enamel, they deduced the average temperature in the environment as the teeth were formed. She therefore could determine that their diets began to shift suddenly as climate changed prior to their extinction, suggesting that the much drier climate left them without appropriate food.