### Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

#### A
Post-traumatic stress disorder is a clinical mental illness that was first observed in war veterans. The condition results from trauma that is either life threatening, the cause of a serious injury, or something that the affected person responded to with intense fear, helplessness or horror. In the 1970s, in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, a behavioural pattern was observable in many of the returning American soldiers. They were emotionally distant, irritable, had trouble sleeping and were prone to severe fits of anger. Anti-Vietnam War activists advocating the troubled veterans coined the term 'post-Vietnam Syndrome' to describe their array of severe psychological symptoms.

#### B
The type of trauma that leads to PTSD is almost always unexpected, and leaves the person involved feeling powerless to stop the traumatic event. Situations that are likely to result in such trauma are varied. Accidents, serious crimes, combat experience, and the sudden death of loved ones can all lead to PTSD. However, not everyone who experiences trauma develops PTSD, and researchers are still trying to figure out why some people are more susceptible to this condition.

#### C
Symptoms of PTSD can include persistent memries or nightmares about a traumatic event, dissociation from the surrounding world, avoidance of anything related to the trauma and increased anxiety or 'hyper arousal'. People with PTSD are constrantly on guard for danger even when there is no indication of threat in their immediate environment. This heightened state of anxiety or irritability has other consequences as well, such as being prone to outbursts of anger or violent aggression, having difficulties concentrating, and having trouble sleeping.

#### D
Contrary to common belief, PTSD is a treatable disorder, and ther is a range of treatments available to PTSD sufferers. Once a patient is diagnosed with PTSD, they are almost always put on some form of anti-anxiety or anti-depressant medication, which will often be used in conjunction with some form of therapy. The most effective therapeutic models for PTSD sufferers are exposure therapy, eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR), and cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT). As the name suggests, exposure therapy involves exposing the patient to their trauma in a safe environment so that they can become desensitised. EMDR combines exposure therapy with guided eye movements that help individuals process traumatic memories. CBT, on the other hand, teaches patients skills such as relaxation and mindfulness techniques that help them deal with their meories of trauma more effectively. Although these treatments can be highly effective, many victims of PTSD will experience painful relapses during the course of their lives; ensuring the long-term availability of care and support is thus of paramount importance.