#### A
During American history, perhaps nothing has had such an immense influence on the American lifestyle than the growth of personal car ownership. The automobile allowed Americans to easily travel across their immense nation and came to symbolise freedom. Car ownership became a rite of passage and as more and more Americans bought them, this caused a great shift in demographics in the country. With their increased mobility, Americans were able to move out of the cities and into the suburbs. For many, owning a suburban home with a yard and white picket fence came to symbolise the 'American Dream'.

#### B
However, some do not see the automobile as a great symbol of freedom. In fact, they consider our reliance upon automobiles to be a burden. For most people, the ever-increasing prices of automobiles make them large investments. Further, fuel, insurance, and maintenance costs can make them even more unaffordable. While this may seem like an individual problem, it has had a major negative impact on society as a whole. When the previously mentioned suburban flight drained cities of middle and upper class citizens who could afford private transportation, the overall income levels of the cities dropped. This led to a decline in tax revenue and caused widespread urban decay.

#### C
Interestingly, with more than 250 million cars currently on the roads of America, some believe that the country has reached what professor Phil Goodwin refers to as 'peak car'. This basically means that Americans are travelling less by car tahn they were before. one of the most commonly cited reasons for this is that people are moving back into the cities. With this reurbanisation, citizens have increased access to affordable public transportation. After comaring the costs of purchasing and maintaining a car  to this public transportation, many Americans have begun to forego car ownership altogether.