### The Folkloric Roots of Eye Makeup

#### A
The 'evil eye' is an element of many folklore traditions throughout the world, and while the exact nature of its meaning varies from one culture to another, it is generally thought to represent the sin of covetousness, or jealousy. According to many legends, a person who is envious can unintentionally harm another by gazing at him or her with desire. Archaeologists believe that this superstition is tied to the origins of eye makeup as protection. In Ancient Egypt, for example, protective measures against the evil eye involved painting the eyes with kohl, a mixture of soot and minerals. The typical blend included some combination of copper, ash, lead, and ocher, a yellow-brown pigment derived from iron oxide.

#### B
In Ancient Greece, the use of cosmetics around the eye developed independently in the first century B.C as a form of apotropaic magic, a ritual observance that was intended to ward off evil. Both men and women lined their eyes with lampblack - a black pigment produced by burning oil in shallow pans - and occasionally darkened their eyebrows as a superstition. Archaeologists in Greece have uncovered black-figured drinking vessels painted with apotropaic eyes, which they believe were drawn to protect the user from posion. Therefore, the Eqyptians were not the only civilisation to develop this kind of protective response to threats.

#### C
The use of cosmetics was so common around the Mediterranean that they found their way into other facets of society, initially as a theatrical device, and later as fashion. On stage, form example, actors employed masks to symbolise typical characters, and these were painted to intensify the desired features. This was due, in part, to the necessity of making the face visible to a large audience, but at the same time, it was a maens to move away from realist facial appearances and convey a sense of the fantastic. Eventually the custom of wwaring eye makeup directly on the face in the theatre was echoed by some members of high society, particularly during social gatherings. In addition, the range of pigmentation and types of cosmetics grew, and colorful paint, glitter, and sheen began to increasingly adorn the eyes of performers and the general public alike.

#### D
In modern times, applying eye makeup has become a mundane daily ritual across the globe for many women, most of whom wear it to highlight beauty, rather than for any celebratory reason. Modern cosmetics such as eye shadow and mascara are now part of the massive global cosmetics industry and are used as means of highlighting the eyes for everyday occasions worldwide. In many societies, the use of eye makeup among men is also increasingly common, a phenomenon which revives its ancient unisex roots, albeit for cosmetic rather than superstitious reasons. Eye makeup is thus more popular than ever in the contemporary world, extending across both class and gender boundaries in tis use.