#### A
The Industrial Revolution caused a great shift in manufacturing from the laste 18th to early 19th centuries. During this time, manufacturing moved from small home-based enterprises to large factories with many employees working with machines. Unfortunately, this change was not accompanied by a shift in management styles to maximise the niew systems' efficiency. It was soon clear that mismanagement was resulting in financial losses that reduced the benefits of the increased output. Therefore, there was a pressing need for a new way of management.

#### B
One of the first people to address this problem was American engineer Frederic Winslow Taylor, whose experiments brought about a new way to direct the workforce - 'scientific management'. This new management style sought to organise companies in a more efficient and rational way. Through his work, Taylor identified several problems with management styles of the time. The lack of knowledge of the entire production process was the most basic of these. By giving managers more knowledge, Taylor felt they could better understand all aspects of the business and identify the inefficiencies of some manufacturing processes. He also thought the basic role of supervisors was incorrect. He preferred a white-collar managerial style, in which supervisors controlled employees' roles, methods, and time. Further, he developed formulas to determine peak employee efficiency by studying tasks and calculating the most efficient means of doing them. This included determining the ideal size of a shovelful of dirt and the speed at which employees should move when pushing a wheelbarrow.

#### C
Taylor's work led to a micromanaged hierarchy of power, but contemporary opinions do not suggest that this was a positive outcome. They claim that Taylor's management style leads to dehumanised and dissatisfied workers. And they also point out that it was exactly these feelings that led to workers movements in the early 1900s and brought about the first labour unions.