### Democracy in Britain and America

#### A
Waves of people from diverse ethnic backgrounds have mgrated to North America since Europeans first arrived on the continent. In the colonial period, however, it was the British who domiated immigration to America and they brought with them the political and legal values of their homeland. As the colonies evolved and America began its struggle for independence, differences emerged because of the geography of the land and the makeup of society, as well as the desire of the Founding Fathers to introduce a new form of democracy. These differences would define how American democracy evolved separately from its former colonial rulers. America's unique system of representation was partly inspired by the British model, but was stripped of its aristocratic and royal roots in favour of a more local emphasis.

#### B
Britain's model of representative government has its origins in the practice of medieval English kings, who enlisted the advice of a small group of confidants concerning their 'subjects' wishes'. Britsh monarchs recognised the role of consultation in garnering support from the people, and in turn, their obeisance. The parliamentary system that subsequently developed was composed of an upper and lower house, the House of Lords and House of Commons, respectively. The House of Lords was founded as a hereditary body for the clergy and nobility, and the House of Commons was comprised of elected members from administrative districts.

#### C
Even though the British parliamentary system had two separate houses claiming to represent the interests of the respective classes, elections were far from democratic. General elections were based on rigid constituencies, a system resulting in an electorate made up of a minute portion of the population. Consequently, politically influential self-governing townships whose populations had dissipated could elect two members of parliament, the same number as cities with large populations. Some of these electoral districts with disproportionate representation had fewer than ten voters. A related issue was the fact that these districts could effectively be controlled by ansingle wealthy aristocrat. Bribery was the often rampant, and hopeful representatives would bestow gifts or proffer promises upon patrons for votes, or simply but the borough outright. These practices created a voting process that resembled pre-ordained consensus rather than democracy.

#### D
The situation differed dramatically across the Atlantic: the manner in which the legislative assemblies arose in the colonies was not governed by the influence of a social hierarchy, but rather, the particualr needs of reginal and local communities. Since colonial charters allowed, but did not require, representative government, the assemblies of individual colonies developed under conditions of relative heterogeneity. The legislative bodies thus arose not to address the concerns of an entire country, but those of separate aggregates of people, emphasising plurality and diversity in a way that set the stage for American democracy as we know it today.