#### A
Researchers have tried to understand the origin of human language for millennia. However, this job is quite difficult as there is little physical evidence to be studied. Because of this, linguists must use modern languages, theories of language acquistion, and studies of alnguage systems to infer information about how, when, and why human linguistic communication began. Using these techniques, two main theories have been developed. These are continuty theory, which states that language evolved from previous forms of communication and appeared gradually over time, and discontinuity theory, according to which human language is a unique form of communication and probably appeared suddenly.

#### B
Continuity theories are often divided into vocal, gestural, and social origin theories. Under vocal theory, language originated from primates mimicking natural sounds and using them to identifiy objects. Gestural theories, on the other hand, posit that as humans vecame bipedal the developed a form of sign language, but over tiem this was replaced by sounds. Although both theories have their merits, many sociolinguists believe that language developed as a survival mechanism along with societal complexity. By spreading information about other society members, early humans could form alliances and identify friends and foes.

#### C
Conversely, the relatively fewer discontinuity theories point to a sudden development of language. This is most commonly seen to be the result of divine intervention. Many traditional stories explain how langusge was given to humans by gods or other supernatural deities. However, other proponents of a genetic discontinuty theory have come to believe that humans have an inate capacity for language. This, according to Noam Chomsky, means that language likely appreared instantly due to an evolutionary mutation. Many linguists originally dismissed this theory, but mounting evidence of the relationships between languages is increasing its popularity.