1. Regardless of the amount of natural talent one has, if noe does not work hard, one will never find success.
2. Without grades, students would not be able to determine how well they are doing in their subjects.
3. Once a machine is purchased and installed, it can be operated with only minimal maintenance costs.
4. Given the extremely high rate of unemployment, something must be done to create more jobs.
5. When it comes to learning a musical instrument, the earlier a child starts, the better.
6. It is doubtful whether lie detector tests are a reliable way to determine if a person is telling the truth or not.
7. It seems as if students are more enthusiastic at the beginning of the term.
8. I would consider taking a job with less pay provided that it is in a filed that I am passionate about.
9. Many students are not likely to be inspired to learn unless they are graded on their performance.
10. I would work for a large company on the condition that I would still have a chance to express myself once in a while.
11. If I were asked to change careers, I would become a sport coach.
12. If it were up to me, I would require all first-year students to attend all their classes or risk failing marks.
13. Suppose the printing press was never invented. What would have happend in Europe?
14. Presumably, children benefit from taking mandatory physical education classes in elementary school.

Let's assume that not all students with part-time jobs work more than 20 hours a week.

In all likelihood, cites would imporve by increased spending on public transportation.

I wish I could go back to my childhood because that was the last time I was free of responsibility.

3. 양보를 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

Even so, school uniforms provide students with fond memories of school long after they have graduated.

In spite of the pollution that is emitted by cars, I still beliveve they are one of the greatest inventions of the century.

4. 요약을 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

To sum up, knwing how to use a computer is essentail for educatio nand employment.

Overall, good neighbors are trustworthy, friendly, and caring.

In this regard, I think that you should never judge others based on their physical appearance.

All things considered, students need to prove why they deserve to attend a university.

Last but not least, war never decides who is right, but rather who is left.

As such, he has the authority to make decisions for the company.

That ks, major corporations own media companies and are interested in portraying reality in a way that is favorable to their own interests.

In short, I believe that parents should be selective in how much time their children can spend watching TV.

In conclusion, the best coworkers are the ones who honest, loyal, and cooperative.

What it comes down to is that unless tuition is raised, student services will be cut back.

CHECK-UP

1. To sum up, a successful student's most invaluable tools are diligence and time management.

2. Nevertheless, the issue can be resolved by teaching students the correct way to utilize the internet.

3. Once employees sign the contract, they must follow the company policies.

4. In spite of the downturn in the regional economy, many local companies are still turing a profit.

5. I would take a part-time job while in university provided that it does not take up more than 20 hours a week.

6. Overall, recycling is the essiest way for the average person to help the envirionment.

7. Let's assume that students spend an average of three hours a day on the Internet.

8. Without airplanes, traveling between continents would take weeks or more.

9. In this regard, careful planning is an essential component of future success.

10. Given the man's preference for expensive clothes, it is not surprising that he spent so much money on a new suit.

11. In short, children need affection in order to develop healthy personalities.

12. In conclusion, all employees should be required to participate in ongoing training courses.

