1. Scientists agree that global warming is one of the biggest threats to humanity.
2. The environmental destruction that we are seeing now started with the Industrial Revolution.
3. Environmental concerns over global warming reached new levels during last summer's heat wave.
4. One of the ways to decrease the environmental damage caused by power production is to expand the use of alternative energy.
5. Urban planners are working on sustainable development that does not negatively affect the envirionment.
6. Governments need to develop environmentally-friendly policies to prevent further damage.
7. Americans generate between 250 and 400 million tons of residential waste each year.
8. Factory waste contributes greatly to air, land, and water pollution.
9. A food shortage is predicted this winter after a severe drought last summer.
10. Global warming is part of a vicious cycle that contributes to forest fires, which cause even more global warming.
11. The use of a nuclear weapon would have a long-term negative impact on the environment.
12. A high-tech society allows people to live longer and more comfortable lives.
13. We should spend more money on solving problems on this planet than on space exploration.
14. The auto industry would be wise to consider making vehicles that do not run on gasoline.
15. The self-driving automobile systems would make us more physically secure by reducing the frequency of automobile accidents.
16. INformation technology specialists in INdia develop complex software at a fraction of the cost that American programmers charge.
17. Some poeple think that by developing artificial intelligence, humans are making themselves obsolete in the workforce.
18. Several programs have been developed to filter web content.
19. Just a few years ago, dial-up modems were considered a state-of-the-art technology.
20. Mobile technology is a double-edged sword because it makes optimal use of time, but also risks burning employees out.
21. The rising sea level is an international crisis that must be addressed by all governments.
22. Some companies require their employees to be bilingual in otder to keep in step with globalization.
23. Doing business on a global scale requires advanced communication and transportation technology.
24. Few people recognize that 55 different ethnic groups comprise China's population.
25. Because of their large populations, cultural diversity in urban areas can be quite high.
26. Each county passes immigration laws that explain how people can become citizens.
27. Some politicians with a deep-rooted prejudice against imports suppport raising tariffs.
28. Transportation advances have made international trading a much easier endeavor.
29. Because Spanish is not her mother tongue, she makes some minor grammatical mistakes in her speech.
30. Many people believe taht English should become a global language.

```
resource depletion
renewable energy
natural resources
a non-renewable resource
oil field
fossil fuel
preserve the ecosystem
corporate dumpling
landfill
environmental tax
greenhouse effect
deforestation
power plant
thermal power generation
solar power generation
tidal power generation
industrial waste water
endangerd species
consider environmental condcerns
environmental consernation
untouched land / undeveloped land
by-product
mobile Internet
wireless communication
long-distance phone calls

online communiity
online university / online degree program
file sharing
a word-processing program
become obsolete
genetic modification
genetic engineering
mass-production technology
a time-consuming process
the lastest gadget
a significant breakthrough
property disagreement
hold a patent
technological advancements
a technological miracle
a scientific discovery
computerized programs
technical and sientific terms
e-book
on an international basis
domestic product
vary form country to country
migrant worker
simplification of culutre
global capitalism
```
