
1. It is true that progress is often harmful, especially to people who are unable to benefit from it.
2. It is a common belief taht protecting the environment is more important than funding the arts.
3. There is a more persuasive argument that the quality of education would improve if professors received higher pay.
4. It is evident that the introduction of the Internet ushered humanity into a new age of technology.
5. I firmly believe that a strong sense of determination is a key factor to a successful life.
6. I support the idea that government should invest in public transportation systems.
7. I am of the opinion that the issue can be resolved by utilizing alternative energy sources.
8. Some people think that children should learn a foreign language as soon as possible.
9. I agree that children are better off growing up in the city because everything they need is relatively close by.
10. My view on this issue is that people pay too much attention to the lives of celebrities.
11. I object to paying a large sum of money to watch a live performance because I can experience the same level of enjoyment watching the show on my TV.
12. I am against guided tours because I feel they are too restrictive and include only tourist attrations.
13. It seems clear that a sense of discipline is useful for several reasons.
14. Quick decisions are crucial in treating people during a medical crisis.

2. 장단을 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

Attending a small-town university has its advantages and disadvantages.

It seems advantageous that consumers are now given more shopping choices.

The main advantage is that the new electoral system will not cost more than the previous one.

3. 비교를 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

I prefer to read news on my smartphone rather than watch televised news.

Similarly, advertising reveals a lot about a country's culture, values, and morals.

Compared to nonfiction, fiction can be a welcome distraction from real life.

Complaining in writing is similar to doing it in person because a customer is voicing his opinion in each case.

It is preferable for young people to choose a different type of job than their parents have.

Taking time for family is more imprerative than ever before.

4. 대조를 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

On the one hand, homeschooling a child can be very prductive because the child receives the full attention of the parent.

While it is undeniable that consumers want to enjoy items from abroad, it is clear that buying domestic farm products should be our top priority.

In contrast, children of parents who forbid them to eat fast food end up trying it but not eating it on a regular basis.

On the contrary, studying at the library is motivating and free from distractions.

However, unlike lecture-style classes, discussion groups give students a chance to share their opinions.
