1. 인과를 나타낼 떄 쓰는 표현

For these reasons, I am against excessive advertising in schools.

The main issue of damage to famous locations is that people tend to get overly excited when traveling, so they are likely to forget the historical significance of these places.

The issue can be resolved with teaching students the correct way to utilize the internet.

As a result, some pets are considered as important as family members.

As a consequence, watching TV with their children can be a bonding experience.

Due to his constantly ringing cell phone, it is difficult for him to have peaceful weekends.

2. 예시를 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

For instance, I had a friend in high school who always finished her homework before watching TV.

Take the example of a CEO, who chose a career in business like his mother.

In another case, I asked a friend for advice and she told me the same thing that my mother did.

People are overly concerned about appearance, as can be seen in the icreased amount of money they spend on their image.

3. 인용을 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

According to research by the Center for Disease Control, policies and initiatives to encourage physical activity are needed to combat obesity.

Studies have shown that even subtle changes in advertising can induce customers to buy a certain product.

It has been proven that students tend to remember more if they go over their notes later.

Statistics have shown that owning a pet can reduce stress out and increase happiness.

4. 부연을 나타낼 때 쓰는 표현

To be gin with, face-to-face communication allows people to convey information through body language.

On top of that, some people get stressed out easily and need time to relax.

We can see that women are not given as many chances to make it to the top of their fields.

One of the ways to keep children with working parents happy and safe is to expand daycare facilities.

This gives rise to concerns about overusesd resources and excessive pollution.

That is why I feel that foreign students should not preferential treatment compared to other students.

As this case reveals, the news media often magnifies stores.

This demonstrates that there are good alternatives to libraries when people want to obtain some reading materials.

To be specific, corner rooms are the best because they usually have more than one window.

Not only that, but a child's ability to learn languages also start to diminish around that time.

In other words, traveling alone can be a lesson in how to overcome hardship.

Moreover, families tend to be more spread out because the car has made long-distance travel easier.

In this way, teachers have greater motivation to help their students learn more effectively.'

As we have seen, society has benefited greatly from certain significant inventions.

To some extent, all colleges try to ensure that students receive proper attention from the teaching staff.

One the whole, TV, video game, and the internet have had a negative effect on society.

CHECK-UP

To begin with, funding for space exploration is justifed due to the scientific knowledge we acquire.

On top of that, mobile phones tend to make people less considerate toward each other.

For these reasons, I think that at least one parent should stay at home instead of work.

For instance, having childrent do house chres is a more effective way to teach them responsibility.

As this cse reveals, crime is still a major problem that needs to be addressed.

To be specific, addmissions to professional schools, like medicine or law, are extremely competitive.

As a result, some parents are limiting the amount of time their children spend on the Internet every day.

It has been proven that dilgience is essential if one is to be successful in life.

According to a recent news report, nuclear science can provide energy solutions that are clean and secure.

In other words, sometimes one has to make mistaks in order to learn from them.

That is why I would prefer to live in off-campus housing.

As we have seen, not all students who enter a university actually graduate.