1. People should try to use public transportation and cut back on their automobile usage.
2. Traffic congestion is a major problem that must be addressed now.
3. Some companies attempt to skirt laws by classifying their workers as independent contractors.
4. New regulations impose strict rules on the disposal of toxic waste.
5. Any law that violates the rights of a citizen is considered invalid.
6. Government workers are sometiems required to implement a policy even if they are morally opposed to it.
7. Small communities have the advantage of a lower crime rate.
8. Personal safety on campus at night is ensured with 24-hour security teams on regular patrol.
9. Legislators must take human nature into consideration when developing laws.
10. Governments rely on tax revenues to finance their programs such as health care and education.
11. Pelople often run up debt on their credit cards when they are short of cash.
12. Many people do not think they will be able to rely upon the socil security system when they retire.
13. In a developing country, the gap between the rich and the poor is often quite large.
14. A diverse work force helps a company stay ahead of its competitors.
15. The unemployment rate in the country has been high for the last three decades.
16. Most people who start at entry-level positions rise to important positions.
17. Many companies hire temporary workers during a holiday season.
18. Most people do not have the skills and leadership abilities necessary for managerial positions.
19. Having a deep interest in a specific field is key to building a career successfully.
20. What constitutes career fulfillment differs from worker to worker.
21. Most high-paying jobs require a degree of higher education.
22. The number of professionals who work out of their homes has increased greatly.
23. Some people have to work two jobs to earn enough money to make ends meet.
24. Some colleges encourage their students to create businesses while in school.
25. If a person whishes to find employment for extra pocket money, a good place to look is in restaurants.
26. Employees who do not feel they are reaping the benefits of their hard work are often unhappy.
27. The rich cultureal heritage of Asia is evident by its myriad temples and shrines.
28. Visitors are respnsible for a lot of damange to historical sites.
29. National parks and other recreational areas are funded by taxpayers.
30. This way, visitors can appreciate art while knowing how to conduct themselves properly.
