UNIT 10.

PART 1.

1. Which do you use more often, buses or taxis?
I use buses more often than taxis. Where I live, buses can go anywhere that taxis can, and they are cheaper, so it makes more sense to take buses rather than taxis. That said, I do use taxis when I need to get somewhere as fast as possible. However, these causes are quite rare.

2. Which do you prefer, public transportation or private cars?
I prefer using public transportation to driving. Buying and maintaing a car costs a lot more than paying for buses and subways. Furthermore, I don't have to concentrate on the road when I take public transport, so it's more comfortable for me.

3. What is your favourite type of transportation?
I enjoy taking trains the most because they are very fast and never get stuct in traffic jams. Also, train accidents rarely happen, so they are safer than cars or buses. On top of these, unlike other land vehicles, trians have on-board restroom facilities, so they're more convenient as well.

4. Do you think many people ride bikes in your country?
I don't think a lot of people ride bikes in Korea. I almost never see anyone riding them except in parks and city squares. Besides, I think the roads in my country are generally too dangerous for people to travel by bicycle.

5. Did you learn how to ride a bike when you were a child?
Yes, my father gave me a small bike for my eighth birthday and taught me how to ride it. At first, I had a hard time keeping my balance, so my father had to attach training wheels to my bike. However, after a lot of practice, I finally learned to ride it without them.

6. Do you think children should learn how to ride a bike?
I'm sure that learning to do it is a good thing for children. Since riding a bicycle is usually challenging for children, mastering it can boost their confidence. Plus, by practicing riding, children can develop a sense of balance as well.

7. Is it safe to ride a bike in your city?
I think riding bicycles in my city is dangerous. Although some parts of the city have bike lanes and paths, most do not. Without those, cyclists are dangerously unprotected. On top of that, some motorists drive recklessly, which can be deadly to those on bicycles.

8. Have you ever taken a long-distance trip by bus or train?
Earlier this year, I visited my family in Busan for the holidays, and I took a bus to get there. Since the route went through the countryside, I get to see a lot of beautiful scenery. The bus was very comfortable, but we got stuck in a traffic jam for more than eight hours. Consequently, I was really exhausted by the time I arrived.

