Unit 2 

Part I

1. Do you live in an apartment or a house?
I live in a studio apartment. It consists of a single room and has just enough space for a bed and a desk. Even though it's quite small, it's cozy and comfortable.

2. What do you like about your house or apartment?
Let's see. First of all, my apartment is convieniently located. It's only about 3 minutes from the nearest bus stop. Secondly, it is not only well-lit but it also has a great heating and cooling system. So, it's warm in the winder and cool in the summer.

3. What do you not like about your house or apartment?
I'm content with nearly everything about my apratment, except for my upstairs neighbor. He is so noisy. For instance, he sometimes practices guitar in the middle of the night. What's more, he plays loud music all the time at full volume.

4. What room in your house or apartment do you prefer most?
I like my bedroom the most. There are a lot of cushions in it, so it is really snug. Moreover, I've got a big TV hanging on the wall. I love to watch movies while lying in bed.

5. What can you see from the window of your house or apartment?
I can see other apartment buildings and the street from my window. There are also several shops directly across from my house. To be more specific, there is a florist, a small grocery store, and a laundry service.

6. How long have you been lving there?
I've been living there for 2 years now. I moved to my apartment right after graduating from high school. That's because I had to find a new place near campus, since my university is really far from my parents' house.

7. Will you keep living there in the future?
To be honest, I have no idea. I don't have any plans to move right now. However, if I get a new job or get married, I might need to find an apartment somewhere else.

8. Do you want to live near your family when you get your own house?
Yes, I'd love to. Even after I get my own place, I want to stay near my family if I can. That's because I don't want to spend hours on the road whenever I visit my parents. Besides, if I lived near her house, my mom would bring me hot food from time to time.