### Unravelling African History

Although the history of Ancient Eqypt and Roman North Africa is elatively well-documented, the dearth of primary sources related to sub-Saharan African antiquity is a major callenge for historians. This lack of information has led to considerable difficulty in developing an accurate picture of the varied societies that existed in this vast region prior to colonisation by Arab and European powers.

Though largely confined to certain areas, written materials do exist which offer insight into the political and social development of sub-Saharan Africa. These are often texts writtten by visitors who recorded their impresssions for the benefit of their native society. Traders from Ancient Egypt, for example, often travelled south along the Nile to Nubia in northern Sudan and thir trades were recorded in Egypt's hieroglyphic script. Following Islamic dominance of North Africa in the 8th century, offical records in Arabic were kept about regions of sub-Saharan Afria. While many of these texts are polemic in tone and packed with religious themes, some are official documents containing information related to trade routes, agriculture and the extensive trans-Saharan slave trade which Arab rulers instituted during this period.

From the 15th century onwards written material in European languages about sub-Saharan Africa also began to appear in larger quantities. The earliest Europeans to arrive were explorers who aimed to take possession of the lands they were visiting. Conveying social and cultural information about indigenous peoples to European societies, they described local customs, ceremonies, and ways of life, often in stunning detail - but their accounts were marked by a pejorative attitude. European explorers, and the Christian missionaries who also began to visit sub-Saharan Africa during this period, viewed thenselves as superior due in part to the natives' substrandard weaponry and their ignorance of Christianity.

The lack of historical accounts from the viewpoint of indigenous societies is mostly because of the lack of a written form for many early African languages, Consequently, the extant historical information about sub-Saharan Africa has been gleaned largely from oral accounts passed down throuth the generations, often in the form of epic historical narratives, Since oral records are subject to differ somewhat each time a story is told, they are not considered to be as reliable as written sources. 

Despite their pitfalls, oral records do have intrinsic value. Not only do they illuminate the culture of Africa and induce historians to look at the past from new angles, but they also present history in artistic and entertaining ways. Furthemore, some epics are filled with information that is accurately reflective of historical daily life. For instance, in the Epic of Silamaka, a tale from West Africa, Listeners anre told of shepherds in herding communities who were chosen to care for the king's flocks and how people wore shoes made of tanned ox hides, with one leather stap over the big toe and one over the heel. In short, while written sources and archaeological evidence provide a mere glimpse into the culture and history of sub-Saharan Africa, stories give us detailed clues about how people went about their everyday lives.
