### The Various Relationship Attachment Styles
#### Our ability to from string emotional bonds as adults may be based on much more than we think.

How people feel when they are in relationships varies, and this variation is something that psychologists have long attempted to understand. In the 1960s and 1970s, developmental psychologist Mary Ainsworth found from her research into mothers and children that emotional attachment is established in infancy. She also speculated that attachemnt styles vary quite a bit among children, who all fall into one of several differnet attachment classifications.

The first is referred to as secure attachemnt and describes a relationship where a child feels safe with his or her caregivers. Secure attachments comprise an estimated 65 per cent of infants, and these attachments are formed by children who feel comfortable most of the time. Specifically, they feel at ease as long as their caregivers are around. They become upset when their caregivers leave but are content again when their caregivers return. Essentially, they form a secure attachment with their caregivers because all of thier neeeds are consistently met.

Insecure attachements, such as anxious/avoidant attachment, also exist. According to Ainsworth, children with this level of attachment avoid or ignore their caregivers, show little emotion when they depart or return, and do not seek them out when distressed. Furthermore, infants with anxious/avoidant attachment act the same way with strangers as they do with their caretakers. Rather than facing rejection, these children mask their distress with apathy and direct attention away from their unfufilled desire for closeness. This type of attachment, comprising about 15 per cent of infants, is common among children with caregivers who are unresponsive to their needs.

Affecting approximately the same percentage of infants is an insecure attachment called anxious/ambivalent attachment. With this level of attachment, children demonstate both clinginess and resistance to their caregivers. For example, a child might become very distressed when the caregiver leaves and remain upsel while alone with a stranger, but upon the caregivers' return, the child resists attention from him or her and thus remains upset. These children, who are nearly impossible to pacify, behave this way because their caregivers provide inconsistent levels of responsiveness to their neeeds.

It is simplistic to think that all children fall into one of three categories of behavior, which is why an unofficial category exists to classify children exhibiting mixed attachment styles. Called disorganised attachment, this classification is given to the small percentage of children whose temperamental response is inconsistent with how they are treated. This generally results from situations in which children have experienced several primary caregivers, such as with foster children.

Ultimately, attachment theory provides a clear expanation for why some people behave in ways that can leave their significant others frustrated, angry, or confused. We may not be able to do anything about the way we are treated as babies by those we depend on, but by understanding why we behave the way we do, it may be possible to make the changes necessary to form healthy relationships as an adult.