### Attrubution Theory

There is a universal need to seek justifications and explanations for people's actions, both our own and those of the people we encounter, and therefore to determine who or what is resposible for those actions.  Psychologists note that such an inherent need for explanation will often manifest itself as a tendency to attribute behaviour to either internal or external causes, depending on the circumstances. This tendency is known as attribution theory.

First proposed in 1958 by Austrian psychologist Fritz Heider, attribution theory presumes that all human behaviour is mtivated by internal or external factors. In the latter case, situations are sometimes perceived as being beyond a person's control, meaning that individuals experience a diminished sense of responsibility. For instance, if an employee arrives to work late due to beavy traffic, the tendency is to project accountability outward. On the other hand, people tend to feel responsible when they can impact outcomes. Studying hard, training diligently, and doing one's best to bbe a good parent, for example, are viewed as stemming from personal motivations. In such cases, people describe their own efforts as the cause of their behaviours.

While it is easy to attribute unexpected events to external forces, the line between an internal and an external cause is often unclear. In a situation where a person is engaged in a heated argument and is behaving aggressively, an observer will likely think that person is prone to anger or mean-spiritedness. Such an attribution often happens without knowing how the argument arose in the first place, with the observer assuming the behaviour is due to the person's personality. This tendency for observers to focus on the internal reasons for behaviour, rather than the external, is known as 'correspondence bias'. In the same scenario, however, teh person behaving aggressively may feel as if he or she has been the victim of some injustice and that such a reaction is therefore justified.

A similar tendency can be seen in the reactions people have to their own experiences. When individuals have positive experiences, like getting a promotion or achieving a goal, they are inclined to associate their own efforts with their success. In contrast, when people undergo negative experiences, the bias is inverted, and they are likely to ascribe disappointment to external factors. Rather than assigning failure to their faults or lack of ability, people magnify the factors outside their control. By casting responsibility outward, they are able to blame these external factors for their misfortunes and maintain the perception of themselves as victims.

Ultimately, it seems that offering internal and external reasons for our behaviours allows us to emphasise our positive aspects and boosts our self-esteem, while providing justification for our negative actions, which prevents us from feeling guilty. Only by understanding the role that ego and self-perception unconsciously play in attributing our successes and failures can we make changes to the way we act in any number of situations.
