### Population in Europe: The Great Transformation

Throughout the Late Middle Ages, Europe's population was declining due to poor harvests, war, and most significantly, the Black Death, a devastating strain of plague that spread throughout the continent. The constant threat of death from this pandemic created panic among the people, of the sort described by Giovanni Boccaccio in The Desameron in 1348. Reflecting how many Europeans felt at the time, Boccaccio created a fictional world where citizens ignored laws and lived every day as if it were their last. He was essentially attempting to depict the behaviour of people who belived the world was ending, which was not so far from what many may have thought at the time.

At its destructive peak in the 14th and 15th centuries it is estimated that the Black Death reduced Europe's population by betweeen 30 to 60 per cent, but it did not end there. A resurgence of the plague occurred in the 17th century, and this - in conjunction with decades-long wars - resulted in millions of deaths. As a result, Europe's population increased only gradually from 1300 A.D to 1800 A.D. This growth dramatically increased between 1800 and 1914, when the number of people in Europ surged from 188 milion to 458 milion.

Historians refer to this period as the 'Great Transformation', and credit major improvements in agricultural production, including the development of farming machinery and the cultivation of higher-yielding, more nutritious plants from the Americas, for this momentous population growth. With more nutritious food to eat, infants began surviving in far greater numbers than ever before, and the average life expectancy rose by about two decades. A further contributon to the declining mortality rate was an improved understanding of desease and infection.

However, the rapid increase in population was worrisome to some. In his 1798 paper, 'An Essay on the Priciple of Population', economist Thomas Malthus suggested that Europe was becoming overcrowed. In a complete reversal from earlier writers who wrote about the chaos caused by Europe not being populated enough, Malthus emphasised that the number of births neeeded to be controlled. His paper gave rise to the popular concept of family planning and his views were used extensively by later propoents of the idea that giving birth should always be voluntary. In the 19th century women did begin limiting the number of children they had, and in a matter of decades, the fertility rate and decreased by 30 per cent.

In the 20th century, Europe's population was profoundly impacted by medical advances and improved nutrition to the extent that, with the exception of the period during the two world wars, longer lives became the norm. The birth rate cntinued to decline, and today, the population is experiencing negative growth for the first time in the modern era, This is expected to contiue indefinitely, aided in part by such changes to legislation as the legalisation of abortion, In fact, the United Nations Population Division predicts that the population of Europe, measured at approximately 728 milion in 2005, will dip below 665 milion by 2050.