### Infant Cognition: Acquired or Innate?
#### If infants are born with cognitive abilities, genetics may play a more significant role in development than environmental factors

Throughout history, psychologists have debated whether people are more strongly influenced by genetics (nature) or their environment (nurture). Because newborns are close to 'nature' as a human can be, they have often been the object of study by experts attempting to better understand the orgins of human cognition. According to Jean Piaget's famous theory of early human cognition, infants acquire intelligence only through the physical actions they perform with objects around them. To him, cognitive ability is not innate but is acquired over time through interaction with the phenomenal world. Newborns practise reflex behaviours and slowly gain control over them through repetition. Over the course of their first few months, they learn to perform actions over and over again, such as sucking their thumbs, which give them some sort of pleasure or satisfaction. In this  stage, he maintained, they are still unable to fully anticipate or predict evnets. From around four to eight months, infants begin to use what Piaget called secondary circular reactions. These are secondary because they involve combining more than one process, e.g. shaking a rattle and hearing it m ake noise.

Through such actions, infants learn cause and effect and begin to realise that their own actions can create subsequent reactions. To Piaget, these were no more than conditioned responses to the connections between newly acquired actions and their effects on objects, and because these actions are undifferentiated, he believed that they were not goal-directed activities and, thus, they are not intentional. Therefore, only gradually do babies begin to realise that objects have an independent existence outside of their own perception. Piaget argued that infants have extremely limited cognitive ability until around nine months of age but reasoned that, by then, they have usually acquired the ability to recognise object permanence.

Piaget used object-hiding tasks to demonstrate this acquisition. For example, he would show babies an object and then hide it uder a cloth or cup and analyse whether infants perceived that the object had disappeared or was merely hidden from view. Piaget based his conclusions on whether the infants responded by removing the cloth or cup to find the concealed item. If they did, he surmised that they had at least a limited apprehension of object permanence; howerver, he also suggested that this ability was immature and limited because if the object was moved to another location, the infant would still try to find it by removing the original item that obscured it. Nonetheless, according to Piaget, this stage represented the first truly intelligent behaviour in human cognitive development, and he believed it was the basis for all future problem solving.

Still, not everyone though that Piaget's analysis was entirely correct. Canadian-born psychologist Renee Baillargeon's studies of cognitive development in infants challenged Piaget's beliefs. She pointed out the importance of conducting experiments and tests that are appropriate for the developmental level of infants, arguing that the limited motor skills of young infants may be responsible for their perceived lack of cognitive abilities, In other words, Baillargeon disagreed with Piaget and accused him of confusing motor skill limitations with cognitive limitations. To test this hypothesis, she focused her studies on visual tasks rather than manual tasks.

In one experiment, Baillargeon showed three-month-old infants a toy truck rolling down a track before getting obscured behind a screen, letting the infants focus on this process several tiems until they were habituated to it. Baillargeon then introduced a box which was positioned so that it looked like it would block the truck's journey down the track. However, when the truck was sent down again, it passed the box apparently unimpeded. Baillargeon discovered that infants would look for far longer at this unexpected event than they did at the normal progress of the truck before the box was placed on the track. Baillargeon concluded from this that they knew the truck should have been blocked, and were confused when it wasn't. She thus believed that they had an understanding of the properties of objects, including their permanence and their trajectory when in motion, This contradicted Piaget, who believed these abilities only develoed at around nine to twelve months.

Her findings rest on the assumption - now widely accepted and supported by various studies - that infants focus longer on events that are novel or surprising, whereas events that are familiar to them capture their attention for a shorter period. This presumption has come to be known as the violation of expectation (VOE) paradigm. She reasoned that, to the infant, the novel event was surprising and even 'impossible'. According to Baillargeon, this means that very young children have the capacity to distinguish between events that are possible and not possible, suggesting that they have far more inborn cognitive ability than Piaget Thought.

Yet to say that infants can conceive of objects in the physical world in the same way that adults do does not mean that hey always reason in the same manner as adults. Therefore, the innate 'pre-wiring' of the human brain must continue to develop through childhood and adolescence. In this sense, it goes without saying that experience, or nurture, remains a crucial factor in human cognitive development. Still, the experiments of Baillargeon and other child development psychologists built upon the work of Piaget and reenergised the field in much the same way that Noam Chomsky's studies of language acquisition revolutionised linguistics.