We often take air travel for granted tody, but it is actually the result of centuries of experimentation. Since our earliest days, people have attempted to fly like the birds that they observed in the sky. These rudimentary attempts at flight included everything from jumping off ledges with simple feather-covered wings to elaborate flying machines like the one designed by Leonardo da Vinci. Unfortunately, none of these were ever able to overcome the inherent problem with flight - getting and keeping an object that is heavier than air aloft. This would remain the case until the mid-1800s, when George Cayley ascertained the fundamentals of aerodynamics. using his newfound knowledge, Cayley was able to produce a rudderless glider that could lift a houman 100 feet into the air. Cayley's work brought about even greater experimentation in aerodynamics. Amongst those whose interest was piqued were Orville and Wilbur Wright. These American brothers used a rudimentary air tunnel to perform tests on medel wings. Using this device and Cayley's principles, the Wright brothers observed how inds affected planes and developed accurate mathematical formulas for flight. Eventually, they devised a way to change the wing configuration to control the plane's balance, in much the way that ailerons do today, and a rudder system, which allowed for lateral steering of the vessel. Their main problem was then figuring out a way to power the plane. Although steam engines of the day could've pushed the plane fast enough to provide lift, they were incredibly heavy. Luckily, the internal combustion engines developed for the burgeoning automobile industry were both powerful and light enough for the task. The Wright brothers attached one of these engines to a propeller on their aircraft and made the first controlled, self-propelled flight at Kittyhawk in 1903. This type of engine configuration became the standard in the aviation industry until the late 1930s, when the jet engine was developed.