### The Scent of Bygone Days: Is Smell Uniquely Intertwined with Memory?

#### A
There is a popular and widely circulated claim that odours are the strongest cues to memory. This adage has been promulated in scientific as well as popular publications. Take Diane Ackerman's 1990 declarations that 'Perfume is liquid memory' and 'Smells detonate softly in our memory like poignant land mines' as examples, and the role of the olfactory sense in emotion and memory comes vividly to life in literary allusion and allegory.

#### B
Through smell, we are instantaneously taken back to an intact simulated excerpt from our past. In 1991, Trygg Engen wrote that smell generates episodic memory, providing a richly detailed autobiographical episode borne totally complete in a single memory unit. He contrasted this to semantic memory, which relies on words, categories, indexing, and the like. In his view, smell may be the most primal of the senses and a product of a primitive world prior to language. But is scent really such a powerful cue for reminiscences as received wisdom would suggest?

#### C
The phenomenon of smell-induced recollection has been studied in experiments, with mixed results. David Rubin and his colleagues at Duke University sought to investigate the assumption that an actual scent, rather than the idea of a scent, had a special function in memory. In 1984, they recruited forty student participants and assigned them randomly to either be presented with an odour or written words representing the odour. They utilised what they thought would be familiar smells, particularly ones that might provoke an early memory; these included Johnson & Johnson's baby powder, plasters, soap, peanut butter, etc.

#### D
Then participants were asked to describe any memories awakened bythe scents or descriptions and respond to questions like 'How clear or vivid was the moemory?' or 'How did you feel emotionally at the time of the momory?' In a second experiment, the researchers used a similar method but added photographs representative of an odour in addition to the actual scent and written words. The team made some surprising discoveries, such as that a memory triggered by an actual sent was likely to have never been thought of before, or thought of less often, and odour might often evoke a more pleasing or emotional memory than pictures or words.

#### E
Subsequent experiments have shed additional light on the issue. In 2000, British psychologist John Downes of the University of Liverpool discovered that the connection between an actual scent and a memory seems to be tied to age. He gathered subjects in their late 60s and early 70s, presented them with olfactory cues or verbal cues (smell-related words), and asked them to describe a related autobiographical experience that came to mind. Their analysis revealed that the actual odours triggered memories from a much younger age than the verbal cues. The former tended to revive recollections from age 6 to 10, whereas the latter generally evoked memories from between 11 and 25 years of age. This suggests both that smell is a crucial factor in providing a backdrop of contextual details for childhood experience and that it is indeed closely tied to episodic memory because semantic abilities are still limited in late childhood and continue to form well into adolescence.

#### F
Another interesting experiment was described in a 1999 article in the British Journal of Psychology. The author, John Aggleton of Cardiff University, employed a double-cueing methodology in an ingenious manner: he sought to test the relationship between odour and memory outside the laboratory, so he visited the Jorvik Viking Centre, a museum in York, where an exhibition had piped 'Viking odours' into the exhibit area for a multisensory effect. Aggleton wanted to know if these odours would aid repeat visitors in remembering details of the exhibit years later. He gave three groups of returning museum goers questionnaires in various conditions - in the presence of the same original 'Viking odours', a control odour, and no odour. He then repeated the test but with changed conditions for each group. Only the group that took the second test in the presence of 'Viking odours' improved their performance on the questionnaire. Thus, Aggleton concluded that odours 'can provide strong contextual cues that aid in the recall of information originally presented in the presence of those odours'.

#### G
Still, the vast majority of experts agree that the notion of smell being the 'best' cue to memory is largely unfounded because there is no proof that an odour-evoked memory is more accurate than that of any of the other stimuli. However, there does seem to be a consensus that odour-related memories are more emotional in essence. According to Rachel Hertz's article in The Oxford Handbook of Social Neuroscience, when an odour evokes a memory, this first creates emotional sensations, 'After which the event which initially brought about the emotion emerges. In other words, the experiential order of odour-evoked memory appears to follow the temporal sequence of the neurological pathways that are involved.' This order progresses from the sensory-perceptual, to the limbic-emotional and then on to higher cognitive structures. Hertz claims that the 'bottom-up versus top-down temporal unfolding of odour-evoked memory may distinguish it from other memory experiences'.

#### H
Thus, the strong association between olfaction and emotional recollection likely has an evolutionary basis as it has undoubtedly played a key role in human survival. Anatomically, olfactory centres are in close proximity to the most basic portions of the brain, which are directly responsible for emotional experience and memory. Only two synapses separate the olfactory nerve from the amygdala, a set of neurons responsible for emotion, emotional behaviour, and motivation. In evolutionary terms, this integrative emotional centre - indeed, the entire limbic system - arose from the olfactory area of the brain. Considering this, some researchers, such as Michael Jawer, have suggested that without a sense of smell, we may have never evolved to have emotions at all.