### Group Behaviour
#### Most people consider themselves autonomous individuals who make their own decisions. However, studies have shwon that conformity is a natural human impulse, and people will go to astonishing lengths just to fit in.

In sociology, the similarity with which members of a group behave is known as group behaviour, and a peculiar aspect of people in groups is that they tend to conform to the beliefs, opinions, and behaviours of the other members. At times, people may even engage in conduct that conflicts with their personal moral and ethical code. Some violate these conventional codes because they perceive membership as too valuable to compromise. In such cases, their conscience may become disturbed, but they tend to go along with the group anyway. Many studies have explored or attempted to explain this phenomenon.

A series of tests conducted by Solomon Asch, an American Gestalt psychologist, examined the willingness of a group member to conform to the viewpoint of fellow  members even if the members' viewpoint was incorrect. In each test, he upt people in groups of seven at a table and showed them two cards - one with a single line and one with three lines of varying lengths. The participants were then asked which of the three lines on the sencond card was the same length as the single line on the first card. However, there was a catch. In each experiment, only one out of the seven subjects was 'real'; the others had been coached to respond to questions in a certain way. Specifically, they were told to purposely answer some questions incorrectly to pressure the real student to conform. Asch discovered that more than half of the real subjects went along with the incorrect answer at least once.

But is this really a simple matter of peer pressure or fear of going against the mainstream? Neurologist Gregory Berns sought a physiological explanation and conducted an experiment with MRI scanners to determine which parts of the brain were 'activated' when a person accepted a decision that was in conformation with the group, even when they felt it was incorrect. He resoned that if peer pressure was responsible, he would see changes in activity in the forebrain, which is involved in monitoring conflicts. But what Berns discovered was that when people follow a group;s opinion, the posterior areas of the brain were stimulated. This indicated that a change in spatial perception had occurred, and led Berns to conclude that the incorrect responses the false respondents had provided literally altered the perception of the true participants. Thus, he challenged the notion that the participants in the Asch experiment were merely giving in to peer pressure. In fact, they were actually seeing the length of the lines differently from how they would have if no false responses were given.

Social psychologist Stanley Milgram went even further in his experiments at Yale University in the early 1960s. The Milgram experiments were groundbreaking in that they were the first extensive ones carried out that focused on extreme obedience to authority and its potentially destructive repercussions. Milgram told the subjects that they were participating in a study about learning and memory and then assigned them to be 'teachers', with the stated goal of determining the role of punishment in learning. Howerver, what Milgram actually wanted to do was find out the extremes to which people would go to punish others when instructed to do so. In the experiment Milgram designed, the subjects were instucted to punish the 'learners', who in fact were actors, by giving them an electric shock each time they failded to offer the correct answer. His experiments demonstrated that even when the actors screamed in agony for the test to stop, the majority of 'teacher' continued to administer the shocks at the request of the experimenter.

An even more ominous experiment conducted by a high school teacher in Palo Alto, California underscores the dangers of conforming. History teacher Ron Jones was teaching his class about totalitarianism when he was interrupted by a question asking how the citizens of any nation could be convinced to accept living under a dictatorship. This gave him an idea. The next week, he began lecturing on the positive qualities of discipline and instituted new rules, under the name 'Third Wave', which mandated that students answer questions succinctly, in three words or less. He also introduced slogans like 'Strength through discipline; strength through community' and had the students stand and recite the new mottos. Furthermore, he introduced a Third Wave salute and membership cards, and suggested that members report others who were breaking rules. He was astounded when they willingly did so.

One the fourth day of the experiment, Jones told the students that Third Wave was based on an actual political movement in history and that he would reveal the leader of the movement the next day, and he did this by showing a film which featured Adolf Hitler and footage of the German labour camps during World War II. The students were stunned, and some were in tears. Jones pointed out to them that out of regard for the group;s objectives, they had failed to examine their own convictions and the principles on which the group was founded. The name 'Third Wave' had not been accidental. Indeed, a new Third Reich had nearly been born.

Experiemnts aside, it goes without saying that in any society, group members must conform to some degree for cooperation and sound decision making. Yet the dangers of rigid conformity must be avoided, or it can result in 'groupthink', creating excessive loyalty to an idea, cause, action, or decision at the expense of critical thinking. So, then, in any group, deviance in some form is necessary to guarantee that the ramifications of a proposition are explored from every possible angle. Still, deviance in its extreme form can lead to stalemates, arguments, or even anarchy. Thus, it is imperative that constructive forms of criticism be encouraged while destructive critcism is regarded with the utmost vigilance.