The bluegill is one of the most popular gaming fish in North America and is frequently found in freshwater lakes and ponds. This relatively small fish has been the subject of intense study by wildlife biologists for its unusual mating  habits. While similar to other fish in that the male cares for the offspring, the bluegill is unique in that some males use deception and mimicry to insemiate eggs meant for a different, larger male. Around 20 per cent of blugill males attempt to enter the mating process through trickery before they are fully grown. These fish, known as cuckolds or sneakers, will seek out a large parental male, hide in the weeds adjacent to the male's grounds, and wait for a school of female fish to pass over. Once a female chooses a partner, she will tilt her body and relase school of female fish to  pass over. Once a female fish to pass over. Once a female chooses a partner, she will tilt her body and release roughly 30 eggs. Normally, the resident male would shwer these eggs with his seed, but before he has a chace to reach them, the diminutive cuckold will leave his safety zone and dart into the nest of the larger male to inseminate the eggs himself, quichly returning to his point of origin without being caught.

With this tactic, the cuckold can fertilise as many of the eggs as possible before they settle into the hole, and then use his undersized body to escape undetected. This technique is only available to younger bluegills, however, since the size of adult bluegills precludes the agility required for this operation. Nonetheless, older cuckolds do adopt another method to achieve their goals. An adult the cuckold will acquire a set of shaded areas and stripes on its body that is similar to that on females, which completely disguises them from other males and allws them to easilt slip into schools of female fish unnoticed. In this fashion, they wait until a nearby female decides to release her eggs before swooping down and inseminating them. If a good selection is fertilised, then the cuckold has accomplished his reproductive duties.