There are thirteen species of otter, all of which are associated with water, such as rivers, or in the cse of the sea otter, coastal areas of the sea. Otters can be distinguished by their elongated body, their stubby arms and legs, and their webbed feet, which allow them to traverse the water with considerable dexterity. They also have the ability to hold their breath underwater for long periods of time, and some otters have been observed staying under the surface for up to five minutes. They can also be distinguished by their fur, which is very dense and has unfortunately made them the target of humans throughout history. The sea otter, which lives in coastal regions of the northern Pacific Ocean, has the thichest fur of any animal. Historically, this made it one of the most lucrative species for hunters and led to a sharp drop in the worldwide population of sea otters, which is only now starting to abate. As the value of its fur increased, demand for this 'soft gold', as it was called, also grew and brought about a period called the 'Great Hunt'. During this period, which lasted from approximately 1741 to 1911, hunters from Russia and other regions ravaged wild sea otter populations with great intensity.

The hunting of sea otters only started to decline when the disappearance of large populations made commercial hunting no longer possible. Eventually an international accord was signed in 1911 that imposed a ban on the hunting of sea otters. By that point, it was estimated that only around two thousand sea otters remained in the wild, and most experts believed the species would eventually become extinct. However, conservation efforts during the 20th century contributed to a substantial growth in the sea otter population, and their return to the habitats of the Pacific coast from which they had almost competely disappeared. Nonetheless, sea otters are still onsidered an endangerd species, and are threatened by fishing, disease, and pollution, as well as poaching. Sea otters may represent one of the great success stories of marine conservation, but their recovery is still at risk by human activity, and maintaining that success requires renewed vigilance.