#### How Steam Power Drove the Industrial Revolution

Prior to the industrialisation and urbanisation that fuelled spectacular growth in Britain's economy over the course of the 19th century, most work was performed by manual labour and animals, heat was provieded by the burning of organic materials, and energy needs were satisfied by watermills. While waterpower offered abundant and cheap energy, its geographical constraints made it inconvenient. The steam engine, however, faced no such limitations. It would not be long before it became the icon of the industrial Revolution and the driving force behind the fundamental changes that all of Western civilisation would ultimately undergo.

As commercial enterprises began to equip themselves with steam-driven machines, the manufacturing industry was transformed. Textile machines running on steam power, for example, could spin multiple threads with the turn of a singlewheel and coordinate precies movements using levers, cams, and gears. The mining industry also benefitted because, for these machines to effectively produce mechanical power, water had to be heated in a boiler, which required a cheap and reliable fuel source - coal.

In transport, high horsepower steam engines gave life to ships and locomotives, greatly improving their reliability, precision, and speed. Consequently, urban industrialists were able to deliver tons of finished products to previously unreachable areas in relatively little time, while raw materials from distant British colonies zoomed into the massive and more cost-effective factories that had replaced smaller production plants. These mega factories, although initially built on the outskirts of residential area, expanded into cities as more than half of the English population, lured by the jop opportunities manufacturers were offering, moved away from the countryside. Adjusting to life in cities would prompt eye-opening lifestyle shifts for the majority of British people.

Among these is that people learned to read, with the literacy rate skyrocketing. Books had previously been a reare and tightly-controlled resource because they were quite time-consuming and expensive to produce, but millions of pages of text could be churned out in a single day thanks to the efficiency of these new machines. With printing presses and literacy, new forms of thought in the fields of politics, philosophy, and science began to spread among the people.

Ultimately, the age of the steam engine had drawn to a close by the end of the 19th century, when it was replaced by a new form of power called electricity. Although electricity is a vital part of contemporary existence, it is questionable whether it ever would have been possible without the technological breakthrough - and the social, intellectual, and cultural advances it spurred - that was the steam engine.