Whilst often considered a modern invention, zoos are actually embedded in a history of animal captivity that spans back thousands of years. A discovery during excavations near Hierakonpolis, Egypt, uncovered the remnants of hippos, elephants, baboons and wildcats buried in the city's cemetery. Dating bach to around 3500 B.C., the remnants point to the existence of a menagerie, a private collection of animals kept by the wealthiest members of society to demonstrate power, to intimidate enemies, to entertain rulers and their guests, and even to hunt. Menageries remained popular in Egypt and elsewhere for quite some tiem. Queen Hatshepsut of Egypt, who ruled around 1500 B.C., kept a menagerie of animals acquired during expeditions to Punt, in present-day Somalia. Around the same time in China, Emperor Wen Wang founded the Garden of Intelligence, which included a huge collection of animals kept on a 1,500-acre property.

Menageries were also a central part of the Aztec culture of central Mexico between the 1th and 16th centuries. When Spanish explorer Hernan Cortes reached the New World in 1520, he wrote about his discovery of a massive collectio nof animals at Tenochtitlan, the capital of Aztec ruler Montezuma. More that 300 people were assigned to the care of the extensive royal menagerie, reputed to be the largest assortment of animals in history. The complex in which the animals were housed was impressive enough in its own right, with two main houses, a botanical garden and an aquarium. Unfortunately, the facilities and the animals kept within them were subsequently destroyed by the Spanish during an attack. Zoos began to replace menageries in Europe during the 18th century, when the Age of EnlightenMent ushered in a new belief in science and reason, which extened to the field of biology. Therefore zoos were created to facilitate the scientific observation of animals in something similar to ther natural habitat. They were open to the public, for a fee, to ensure they had the necessary funding. The first of these modern zoos was the Tiergarten Schonbrunn, opened in Vienna, Austria in 1752, inaugurating a new age of zoology and consigning the menagerie to ancient history.