#### Our Vanishing Rainforests

Found primarily in Latin America but also existing in areas of Asia and Africa, the world's reainforests are under siege, losing between 46 and 58 thousand square miles every year. These ares of the world are indispensible, not just to the flora and fauna that live there, but also to the Earth itself. This is due to the fact that vegetation keeps pollution levels at bay by absorbing the massive amounts of carbon dioxide humans continually pump into the atmosphere through the burning of fossil fuels. Because trees from the planet's rainforests are disappearing at an alarming rate, they are less able to perform this vital ecological service, thereby speeding up climate change - and making the global implications associated with it an inevitable reality.

The factors driving the widespread devastation of the world's rainforests through deforestation are numerous but all are retled to industrial development and population growth. One way rainforest resources are exploited is through unsustainable commercial logging practices. Loggers are only permitted to cut down trees that are fully grown, and are supposed to avoid causing excess damage when doing so. However, massive trees cannot help help but tear down numerous other forms of vegetation in the process of collapsing. Cutting down trees also creates holes in the canopy. These holes, which take hundreds of years to revive naturally, will likely remain permanntly unfilled as the heavy machinery used to penetrate the forests causes irreversible harm to the soil. Meanwhile, higher global demand for meat products has lead to the burning down of vast areas of forests in order to grow soybeans, which is an ingredient for livestock feed. This saps nutrients from the soil, making it only a matter of time before crop yields decrease and more area are cleared.

Also causing soil erosion and, by extension, the loss of trees are mining and oil projects. The extraction of gold from the Amazone, for instance, requires high concentrations of mercury, which leaks into the soil and renders it barren. Likewise, since the discovery of oil reserves in the region, there have been a number of oil spills. It is well known that oil contamination cahnges the properties of earth, meaning that it is unlikely for anything to grow back in acfected areas. Moreover, for activities like mining and oil extraction to be possible at all, trees must be cut down to construct roads; it is estimated that for every 40 metres of road that is built, developers sacrifice 600 square kilometres of rainforest. Making matters worse, roads open the rainforests up to illegal loggers, settlers, and land speculators, whose activities also tendo to result in large areas of vegetation being removed.

Unfortunately, the nations where raiforests are found are often faced with more immediate problems than preserving trees, like mounting debt and poverty. Receiving financial assistance from wealthy countries does help, but it is somewhat of a 'band-aid' solution. Only by collectively acknowledging that the future of the planet is of utmost importance can we begin to save what remains of the rainforests.