#### Shaping Ameria: The Erie Canal

The Erie Canal, which connects the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean via New York's Hudson River, was one of the most influential public works projects of its time. First opened in 1825 after eight years of construction, it is credited with dramatically increasing trade, turning New York into a thriving international port, and spurring westward expansion.

The states surrounding the Great Lakes are home to a weatlth of natural resources, which were extremely difficult for colonists living on America's eastern coast to access in the early 19th century. Likewise, the European goods available in cities like New York were parctically unheard of in the nation's interior. As a railway had not yet been established, the only way of moving supplies back and forth was by horrse-drawn wagons - vehicles with a limited capacity for trade goods. In addition, most journeys lasted weeks due to poor road conditions, not to mention the barrier created by the Appalachian Mountains, and cost a significant amount of money given the time and labour each trip entailed. However, once the Erie Canal opened, ships were able to haul up to 50 tonnes of freight from point to point in aa matter of days. Because they could carry so much, the quantity of goods that was transported skyrocketed, and the price of certain commodities decreased by as much as 95 per cent. It wasn't long before hundreds of boats were coming in and out of New York City on a daily basis, making it the busiest port in America.

With so many fgoods entering NEw York City, it made sense for the state to start shipping commodities down along the East Coast, to the West Indies, and across the Atlantic Ocean to Europe. Doing so was very profitable, but the revenue didn't stop there; shipment tolls were collected on each of the many arriving freights, allowing the state to quickly fill its coffers. Among other things, the money was used to pay off the seven million dollars that had been used to construct the canal, to help fund government operations in Washington, and to market popular sites along the canal route, like Niagara Falls. Consequently, New York quickly became a top destination for both American and international tourists, with thousands taking advantage of the canal to flock into New York each year.

New York's ever-growing prosperity, coupled with the fact that travelling there was no longer difficult, saw the population increase from 124,000 to nearly 800,000 within the first few years of the canal's use. While a great many people moved to New York City, some disembarked at other stop;s along the canal route, where a number of boom towns had been established. This helped to populate areas of New York like Rochester and Buffalo. Furthermore, because the canal went west beyond the Appalachian Mountains, it encourraged people to venture further, to the states surrounding the Grate Lakes: Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. Many of those who settled in these areas were new European immigrants who had been lured to America by the availability of inexpensive arable farmland. Within a matter of decades, this area had established itself as the heart of America's agricultural industry - the breadbasket supplying wheat to the nation.