Cinderella, Snow White, and Sleeping Beauty are all considered animated classics, but all three are actually based on stories published by two German writers commonly known as the Brothers Grimm. Although Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm are often referred to as the authors of these fairy tales, they did not actually come up with the stories themselves. The stories had been passed down through the oral tradition from one generation to the next in Germany and the surrounding regions long before the Brothers Grimm. However, the brothers, seeing that the stories were at risk of being lost, started documenting them. In order to do this, they interviewed friends, relatives, storytellers and aristocrats to learn the stories of the culture. After they had collected the stories, the Brothers Grimm set about putting them to paper. During the writing and editing processes, they combined differing versions of the same tales and edited them to impart a stylistic consistency and to improve the basic plots, thereby making them their own. When it was finally published, their book Nursey and Household Tales was a blockbuster. It wen on to be reprinted repeatedly and eventually had its title altered to Grimm's Fairy Tales. Even Though this is still the name we use for the book, the stories it contained were not exactly the same as the ones that we know today. Most of the brothers' original stories had more adult themes, as they had not been wirtten for children. Over time, the stories were edited to make  them more appropriate for younger audiences and became staples of childhood libraries worldwide. In fact, their works have been translated into more than 100 languages.