#### Speaking Pidgin

It has long been said that 'necessity is the mother of invention;, and nowhere is this sentiment more applicable in the context of linguistics than it is for pidgin languages. Found throughout Africa, the Caribbean, Hawaii, and parts of Southeast Asia, pidgin languages are simple dialects that evolve when two or more groups must communicate for a prolonged period of time but their members do not share a common tongue.

Historically, pidgins arose due to the colonial encroachment of European powers into the New World during the 17th and 18th centuries. As the British, French, Portuguese, Spanish, and Dutch colonised various areas of the Americas, it was inevitable that they would come into contact with native peoples with whom they were unable to communicate verbally. Initially, they may have used a few hand gestures to get their point across, but people are innately inclined to language acquistion and eventually, words were learned and used to facilitate activities like bartering.

The slave trade, which saw milions of Africans exported to plantations in the Americas, is especially responsible for the further development of pidgin tongues. As a great many dialects were spoken throughout Africa and because people were seized from various parts of the continent, new slaves were often able to understand neither their captors nor their fellow slaves. In order to communicate at all, they were forced to adapt, picking up a word from one language here and a word from another language there. Eventually, through this method, conveying the most basic information became possible and people began to rely on this unstructured dialect as the language they used most.

While pidgins vary from group to group, they do share certain features. According to 19th century American folklorist Charles Leland, all pidgin languages sound similar to how a very young child might communicate. Specifically, the pronunciation of words is generally only approximated and the parts of speech are highly flexible, often being modified spontaneously. He also found that speakers of pidgin languages then to ignore the conentions of language. For instance, rather than incorporating function words, like pronouns and prepositions, into their speech, they rely almost exclusively on content words, like pronouns and prepositions, into their speech, they rely almost exclusively on content words. Essentially, speakers of pidgin languages, having a superficial knowledge of the most indispensable words and no regard for grammar, are able to convey their main ideas but not much more.

Of couse, pidgin languages do not often last long. Generally, within a few decades, as children are born into the families of pidgin speakers, one group will have learned the language of the other or both groups will have learned a new common language. Sometimes, the necessity of speaking pidgin is removed when one group leaves an area. For instance, during the French occupation of Vietnam, many Vietnamese learned to communicate with their imperialist rulers in a pidgin French. When Vietnam declared its independence in 1954 and the French left, there was no longer a need for this dialect, so people mostly returned to speaking their primary languages. In the rare instances when pidgin does survive, meaning that children of the next generation adopt it as their mother tongue, it invariably evolves to become increasingly standardised and structured, with a fully developed vocabulary and system of grammar. Ultimately, it becomes a form of colloquial speech known as a creole.