### Gene Therapy
#### A revolutionary teatment

Millions of dollars are spent on medical research each year, and although new techniques are being developed and important discoveries are being made at an unprecedented rate, the cures for a number of life-threatening diseases, like cancer and AIDS, continue to elude scientists. But there may be hope in the form of a treatment known as gene therapy, which involves using genetic material to manipulate a patient's cells. The idea was first proposed in 1972 by Theodore Friedmann and Richard Roblin in Gene Therapy for Human Genetic Disease? This article cited US physician Stanfield Roger's early notion that healthy DNA could be used to replace defective DNA in people with genetic disorders. Building off Roger's idea, Friedmann and Roblin suggested ways in which healthy DNA could be used to fix, replace, or supplement a faulty gene to make it function properly. Researchers quickly latched onto this innovative new concept, and the first gene therapy case was approved in the United States in September of 1990.

Although gen therapy has successfully cured patients with diseases such as leukaemia, haemophilia, and Parkinson's disease in the years since then, it is not without its problems. The most difficult part of administering healthy DNA to a patient is getting the unhealthy cell to accept it. While techniques that involve directly injecting the healthy DNA into the recipient cell have shown some success, the more commonly employed method is through the use of a vector - a DNA molecule that serves as a vehicle to carry foreign genetic material into another cell.

Viruses are the most commonly used vectors because they naturally invade cells. When they are used, some of the virus's DNA is removed and replaced with the therapeutic DNA, but the virus;s structural sequence stays intact and serves as the 'backbone' of the vectors. This tricks the patient's cells into allowing it to enter, but it does not always work as hoped. This is due to the fact that there is always the chance the patient's immune system will kick in and fight off the virus, killing the therapeutic gene at the same time. This process can produce an inflammatory response within the patient, and in certain cases, lead to organ failure.

Alternatively, the viral vector could potentially cause disease once inside the patient and even target more cells than it is supposed to, including ones that are healthy. Because of these risks, gene therapy is still considered experiemntal and the only way to receive it is through participation in a clinical trial. Doctors still have a long way to go before they understand all the potential effects gene therapy can have on a person's body, so research is likely to continue until futher breakthroughs are made and both the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health deen the treatment safe enough to enter mainstream medical practice.