Education is one of the most important issues addressed by societies. It provides people with the basic skills required to survive in the world, but it also allows them to make societal contributions. In fact, former American first lady Eleanor Roosevelt claimed that education was essential to good citizenship. Unfortunately, in large multi-cultural societies like the United States, educating the populace can be difficult. This, according to Dr M. S. Rosenber, is due to distint cultural approaches to education. For instance, the parents of Asian-American students sometimes encourage them to sit quietly, listen intently, and avoid eye contact with their teachers, as these were the educactional values of their cultures. This stands in stark contrast to the importance of classroom discussion and eye contact instilled in most European and American students. This problem cab be magnified by the differing ways that cultures view the role of the teacher in the classroom. European or American parents often see the teacher as a participant in educating their children with whom they work. Many Hispanic cultures, on the other hand, regard teachers as experts and defer to them on nearly all aspects of educational decision-making. Unfortunately, not understanding these cultural differences can have a major negative mimpact on students. Teachers who have been trained in the European and American style of education may see the active participation of students of that culture as superior to that of others. They may also see the involvement of European or American parents as a sign of greater concern for their children's educations. However, they could simply be misunderstanding cultural norms. In order to avold these kinds of problems and to more effectively teach in a multicultural setting, teachers are trained to recognise cultural differences and to adapt their lessons and evaluation styles to reflect them. In other words, they attempt to implement uniform education standards which allow for cultural diversity.