#### The Psychology of Emotion

Since they encompass such a wide spectrum of human behaviour, emotions have always been a central site of psychological study. One of the first figures to introduce a theory of emotion was the Greek philosopher Aristotle, who thought that they were connected to appetites. This idea held sway for centuries, until Charles Darwin formulated an evolutionary concept of emotions. Darwin suggested that emotions had evolved through natural selection and therefore must have a purpose. However, his ideas were supplanted as the field of psychology became more prominent.

A highly influential theory of how emotions work was developed independently by two scholars, William James and Carl Lange, in the late 19th century. This theory, which has come to be known as the James-Lange theory, suggested that physiological arousal leads to the experience of emotion. This was a reversal of the conventional conception that emotion was primarily mental in character. In James and Lange's conception, the body was the source of the emotional response. James suggested that the sense organs are the first part of the body to experience the stimulus of an outside object, and that the information from these is then passed to the brain.

As the James-Lange theory became the dominant conceptualisation of emotion in the early 20th century, it inspired criticism from other researchers. One critial response came from the Harvard physiologist Walter Bradford Cannon and his student Phipip Bard in the 1920s. Cannon and Bard believed that emotional responses were the result of cognitive reactions within the hypothalamic structures of the brain, with the thalamic region being the centre of emotional response. According to Cannon and Bard, the physical responses to emotion could be considered separate from the mental responses, and did not always precede them.

While the James-Lange theory foregrounded the body, and the Cannon-Bard theory prioritised the brain, the two-factor theory of emotion offered a more balanced approach. This theory - put forward by Stanley Schachter and Jerome E. Singer in the 1960s - suggested taht emotional reactions are based on two factors: physical arousal and mental labelling. Therefore, when a person experiences an emotion, they initially feel some form of physiological arousal, and then they search their environment for things they can use to label this as an emotion. This can occasionally result in misattribution, as when someone feels the physical symptoms of anxiety, but believes them to be realted to romantic arousal. With no clear consensus emerging within psychological circles, it seems that the debate over whether it is in the mind or the body that emotions are formed is set to continue.