Around 2000 B.C., a new invention emerged that changed warfare during the period, the horse-drawn chariot. These light carriages provided cavalry archers with a flat platform from which to attak their enemies. Prior to this time armies that wished to proceed rapidly rode on horseback, but this was cumbersome because saddles and stirrups had not been invented. This made it difficult to steer, hold on to the horse and fire at the same tiem. Chariots made this much easier. At their most basic, chariots were wheeled platforms drawn behind one or more horses. Perhaps the most famous of these fighing vehicles were used by the ancient Egyptians. Although they did not invent the chariot, the Egyptians adapted them to improve their usefulness. One of the biggest changes was lightening the overall weight of the chariot by utilising newly invented spoked wheels rather than the traditional disk weel. This made it easier for the horses to pull the chariots faster. However, speed was not the only benefit of the changes implemented by the Egyptians. They also made them much easier to control through the use of the yoke saddle and basic design changes. The yoke saddle was a saddle-like pad that sat on the horses' backs with leather pieces across the horse's chests and bellies to prevent slipage and increase control. The riders' platform, which was connected to the yoke saddle by a long wooden rod, was also redesigned. By moving the rider closer to the chariot's axle, it became more stable for the riders, making it easier to aim and fire at their enemies. Finally, the Eqyptians covered the axle with metal to prevent friction against the chariot's platform. This not only improved the vehicle's movement, but it also reduced damage to the vehicle, making them more reliable. Unfortunately, non of these improvements corrected other problems inherent with the chariot's design, and by 1500 B.C. cavalry troops on horseback had replaced them in most military settings. However, they idd remain in use as racing vehicles for hundreds of years to come.