#### Natural Gas: From the Ground to Your Home

Given the recent decline in the demand for oil and the move away from coal toward cleaner-burning energy sources, natural gas is expected to dominate fossil fuel production in the coming years. With global energy demands at an all-time high, natural gas may be the solution as it is highly efficient and abundantly available in certain areas of the world. But delivering this versatile energy source to consumers is a complex and mutifaceted process.

First, gas must be brought to Earth's surface and extracted by drilling into gas deposits, which can be found both on land and beneath the ocean floor. While extracting gas onshore involves drilling downward into gas deposits, accessing an offshore reserve necessitates first constructing floating platforms for the engineers to work from. Then, depending on how deep beneath the ocean's surface the gas deposit is located, the appropriate extraction technique is employed. If the natural gas supply is in shallow water, a technique called cable drilling, or percussion drilling, is used. This entails repeatedly dropping a cable with a heavy metal bit attached to it against the ocean floor until the reservoir is penetrated and the gas is related. The usual method of reaching a resevoir located at a greater depth, however, is to use a large rotary drill capable of spinning a metal drill bit thousands of feet into the soil if necessary. Once the reservoir has been breached, powerful pumps draw the gas toward the surface.

The next stage is to pump the raw gas from the extraction site to a nearby processing plant, where operators reduce it to its principal componet - methane. Natural gas is not a single gas but made up of various hydrocarhons, including crude oil, methane, propane, ethane, and butane. Whater vapour, helium, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide are also sometimes present. The process of isolating methane and disposing of teh other parts involves multiple steps, which can make the overall cost of natural gas production quite high. However, some byproducts, like propane, crude oil, and butane, all have value of their own and can be sold to offset the expenses of those various steps.

After processing, the gas must be transported to its intended customer market through a vas tunderground pipeline system that can pump the resource from one place to another. In most cases, the gas is moved great distances, crossing state, provincial, and even international borders, to its eventual point of use. Metering stations are built along the length of the pipeline to allow the gas to be meased and monitored, while valves can be found every ten kilometres or so. These valves can be opened or closed to control the flow of gas through the pipeline so that, in the event that maintenance needs arise, the gas can be stopped to provide safe access to crews entering the interior of the pipe. The final step of the procedure is to deflect the gas into distribution lines, which convey it to local sources where it is used for, among other things, heating and electricity and as a power source for automobiles.