#### Wind Power

Wind power has been used by humans for almost two millennia, usually in the form of windmills which ground grain or pumped water. Horizontal windmills were first introduced in ancient Persia before spreading throughout the Middle East and then being exported to Central Asia, China and India. The vertical windmills which are typical in European agriculture began to be used in the Middle Ages, initially in England, northern France and Flanders. At its peak in 1850, it is thought that there were around 200,000 windmills across Europe, but this number rapidly declined as the Industrial Revolution took hold.

Now wind power is making a dramatic comeback in teh form of renewable energy, and the distinctive sight of fields full of towering wind turbines is becoming common throughout the developed world. Wind power is a plentiful source of power, which does not produce gas emissions and uses little land. Although they require significant investment for construction, wind farms are far less costly to run than other energy sources, and their effect on the environment is limited. Denmark currently generates 40 per cent of its electirical power from wind and over 80 other countries around the world are using wind power to generate electricity. There is particularly substantial investment in wind energy in China, which alreay has the largest wind farm in the world, located in western Gansu provice.

Wind power works by very simply using the kinetic energy generated by wind to power generators which produce electricity. Each wind turbine consists of a tower made from tubular steel, on top of which sits a rotor, formed of blades and a hub, and a nacelle, within which sits the gear box and generator. As the wind flows towards the wind turbine, it propels the blades, a process optimised by a pitch system which adjusts the rotor so that it picks up the optimal amount of wind. This is directly into the wind. An anemometre on the back of teh turbine collects wind speed and direction data so that the yaw drive and pitch system can adjust the turbine accordingly. The wind should not be too powerful, as this could damage the blades so the wind turbine's computer system makes sure that high winds are avoided. In case of an emergency the rotors are also connected to a brake, which can shut them down at any time.

The blades are connected to a low-speed shaft, so when the wind pushes the blades around this shaft also begins to spin. This in turn makes the cogs in the gear box spin, which transfers the rotation of the low-speed shaft onto a high-speed shaft, thus increasing the rotational speed to the rate required to generate energy. The spinning of the high-speed shaft then powers a 60-cycle AC generator, converting teh energy into electricity which travels down the tower and into a power statin where it is converted to the correct voltage to be used in homes, workplaces and factories.