Every year, millions of birds participate in annual migrations - moving form one area to another when wather changes make it difficult to find food or when they must seek out potential mates. Some of these journeys are rather simple and merely involve moving to a nearby area, but others can cover more than 10,000 kilometres. To travel such a great distance, birds must possess a strong ability to navigate. Today, it is believed that birds have three methods of navigation: piloting, orientation and true navigation. Piloting is the easiest of these to understand, because it is how we most often find our way. Put simply, they move from one recognisable visual landmark to the next. Much like we know to turn left after a certain feature when coming home from the supermarket, birds know to follow landmarks, like a river that runs north and south, until they get to the net feature, like a lake. However, this can lead to a problem. When the bird looks at the river, which way should it head? To answer this question, birds may use the second method, orientation, which entails using clues to figure out direction. Over the course of the last 50 years, scientists have observed birds using the sun and stars as compasses to check their direction. Some have even been shown to be able to sense and use Earth's magnetic field to orient themselves. The final method is true navigation, which requires the bird to determine its final destination and find a way to it from their current location. For scientists, this is the most fascinating aspect of avian navigation, because it cannot be explained as simply as the other two. At its most baic, true navigation is the way that birds compensate for problems with the other two systems. For instance, if a bird only knew to fly due south or to only follow one particular geological feature it would be highly susceptible to getting lost. If a storm pushed the bird far wet, then flying south would not necessarily get it to the correct destination. Also, What's a true navigation remains undiscovered, some researchers, such as Professor Thomas Collett, believe that the birds possess a 'cognitive map'. They believe that birds can use this map, along with the cues they gather from piloting and orienting and their internal clocks, to find their way.