Zimbabwe's Eastgate Centre should be the model for modern midrise commercial architecture. It was costructed without mechanical air conditioning, resulting in savings of approximately 3 million pounds for the complex's owners. Surprisingly, the building is never uncomfortably hot or cold. This is because the architect utilised the process of biomimicry when designing it. Biomimicry involves humans studying a natural process and imitating it to s olve a complex human problem. In this case, the designer, Mick Pearce, was inspired by termite mounds. These wood-eating pests build large mounds that can reach 25 meaters in height. However, most termites do not inhabit the upper part of the mounds, but they live in a gallery at the base of it. The tall structure above is essentially a large chimney. It contains a central shaft taht moves warmer air upward. This warm air then exits through holes near the mound's top. Radial vents at teh base intensify this action by capturing the wind and cooling the air at teh base of the mound, creating a convection cycle in the structure. After understanding this process, Pearce designed the Eastgate Centre's buildings as a aseries of rooms around a central shaft. Each  room has ducts into the shaft and to the exterior resulting in heat dissipation as in the termite mound. Fans that pull air into the central shaft, producing continuous airflow, assist this system. Through this system, the offices in the Eastgate Centre have a stable internal temperature of approximately 23'C regardless of the external tempreature.