### Charles Ives

Born in 1874, modernist composer Chales Ives studied music as a child adn served as a church organist during his youth. Influenced by his father, who was a bandleader in the army, he went on to compose religious choral pieces at Yale University. Yel despite his talent and penchant for music, Ives was a businessman for most of his life.

Ives joined the insurance agency Charles H. Raymond & Co. in 1899 but left to found an insurance business of his own with one of his colleagues, Julian Myrick, in 1907. Ives quickly earned a reputation among his peers for being a shrewd businessman who was adept at making money. However, believing that insurance was, first and formost, a means of benefiting the public, he upheld the humanitarian ideals of the industry and had no involvement in the corruption scandals prevalent within it during his time. When he retired in 1930, Ives and Myrick's firm was the largest of its kind in America.

Ives' business success so overshadowed his musical endeavours that some of his friends were entirely unaware that he was a composer. Publishing pieces at his own exense and having them performed in obscure places by little-known musicians, Ives kept his distance from the mainstream musical community. His doing so gave him the confidence to experiment, borrowing elements from a variely of musical genres. For instance, he integrated the popular music and religious choral pieces of his teenage and college years with European concert music. Is was his creativity and ability to mix genres that ultimately brought him renown aming music critics.

The work that best epitomises his talent for synthesis is Piano Sonata No. 2, more commonly known as Concord Sonata. The piece was inspired by the American transcendentalist writers of the 19th century, who were active in the vicinity of Concord, Massachusetts. One of the central tenets of transcendentalism was that personal intuition, rather than society and its various institutions, opened the gateway to imagination. Utilising quotations from Beethoven, excerpts from popular and religious music, and sounds from everyday life, such as trains, Ives attempted to capture this spirit in his sonata. Publick performances of the work also included an experimental dimension: before each of the four movements, Ives read from the works of the authors that inspired them - Emerson, Hawthorne, the Alcott family, and Thoreau. The sonata had a triumphant premiere in 1938 - more thatn 20 years after it had been  completed - and news of his work soon spread.

9 years later, in 1947, Ives rose to the very forefront of classical music when he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Symphony No. 3. Despite gaining this acknowledgement for his musical contribution during his lifetiem, he did not live to see many of his works performed live, and Ives'fame among the publick was mostly posthumous. Today, Ives is regarded as a pioneer in American musical history, and his reputation continues to grow. In the last 15 years of the 20th century alone, at least twenty books were released about his life and work.