The ability to make a good impression on people is important to many of us as humans are inherently social creatures driven by a desire to connect with others. However, it can sometims be difficult to interpret exactly what other people think of us. It would be easy if they all simply saw us the way we try to apprear. Unfortunately, everyone we encounter views the world through his or her own unique lens, and people tend to not be very direct about how they feel about others unless in the privacy of their own trusted social circles. It is for the reason that, in order to determine how other people view us, it is sometimes necessary to rely on our metaperceptions.

A metaperception is how a person views others' perceptions of him or herself. Metaperceptions are usually fairly accurate in individuals who have a strong sense of self because these sorts of people are easily able to pick up on how others respond to their words or actions. This enables them to know whether they are liked or not. Individuals with a good sense of who they are tend to have no problems adjusting their behaviours to better suit the situation - if, that is, being liked is their end goal. People with a weak sense of self, on the other hand, are often wrong about how others see them. This is because they often lack self-confidence in the first place and therfore have numerous personal biases. They might, for example, not really like themselves for any number of reasons and therfore think that everyone else hates them, too, when this is not necessarily ithe case. Conversely, others might believe that they are witty and fun to be around when the reality is that hey are rude and burdensome. Unfortunately for people like these, social exclusion and all the negative consequences associated with it sometimes occur as a result.