### The Impact of Global Urbanisation: The Costs and Benefits

Urbanisation, which can refer to either the process by which rural communities grow into cites or the migration of people from rural to urban areas, has its roots in ancient human history. Historians widely agree that urbanisation first occurred in ancient Mesopotamia, beginning with the first true city of Uruk around 4500 B.C., and then continuing with the establishment of Uraround 3800 B.C.

But this phenomenon is usually associated more with modern times. In Europe, a much broader and more extensive urbanisation occurred in the 19th century as a result of the Industrial Revolution. In England, the urban population increased from 17 per cent in 1801 to an astonishing 72 per cent in 1891, primarily congregationg in the cities of London, Manchester, Newcastle, and Birmingham, where factories offered promising jobs to impoverished peasants traditionally dependent on subsistence agriculture. Life in the cities, with its abundant work, entertainment, and social services, seemed like a far more promising alternative to the toil or farm life.

And that lure has continued. In 2008, the world's urban population exceeded its rural population for the first time. But contemporary instances of urbanisation are not relegated to industrialised countries, as was the case prior to the 1950s. Since then, urbanisation has primarily occurred in less developed regions, and it is estimated taht by 2030 virtually all developing regions will have more people living in urban environments than in rural areas. There are several reasons for this. One is the lack of resources in rural areas to accommodate an ever-expanding global population. The second is the lure of employment opportunities that people associate with cities. The third is the desire for higher quality health care and education than what most rural communities are able to provide.

However, it's important to keep in mind that while this shift in demographics promises many opportunities, it's not without its challenges. Often, the job market cannot keep up with the pace of urban growth. This means that many of the poor who migrate to cities will find themselves relocated without improving their economic situations. And without the family and community support that is often present in people's hometowns, urban migrants can find themselves even worse off than they were back home. This in part explains the prevalence of urban slums in our cities today.

Another disturbing aspect of modern urbanisation is the high rate of certain types of crime that plagues many major cities. Decker, Sichor, and O'Brien (1982) conducted a detailed study of how population density affects crime and found that there is a direct correlation between urbanisation and crimes such as robbery and larceny with face-to-face contact. They also discovered that vehicle theft occurred at a much higher ate in urban areas than in rural areas - a finding that is surprising because per capita car ownership is considerably less in cities than in less populated areas, which tend to be car dependent and without public transportation. The problem of crime in urban areas is particularly dire in times of social unrest, such as during the politically volatile years of the late 1960s in the United States, and law enforcement agencies are searching for answers about how to tackle the rampant crime in Amerian cities. Despite increases in the number of law enforcement officers patrolling Chicago's streets, the total number of murders there has risen dramatically in recent years.

But perhaps most pressing on the minds of both city inhabitants and city planners is how to best feed these massive numbers of people. Although the past century has seen dramatic advances in agricultural efficiency and productivity, hundres of thousands of city dwellers continue to suffer from undernutrition. This issue is not directly related to agricultural production itself, which is more than capable of meeting world demand; rather, it is a combination of lack of access to foodstuffs - e.g. due to poverty - and the growing propensity to substitute whole foods with packaged and processed foods (de Haen, 2003), which has been blamed for the epidemic of obesity and its health-reated problems in many cities.

Moreover, with cities' greater dependence on supermarkets, the economics of food logistics promotes fewer agricultural sources, as it is far more cost effective for retailers to streamline their supply chains. This has led to a much heavier reliance on imported goods - a trend that has resulted in the elimination of many small local farms. One soluton being tried out in numerous cities in North Ameria and Europe is the transplantation of rural farms to urban gardens and greenhouses. This allows for locally grown produce, which might be attractive to many consumers, which might be attractive to many consumers. Some large-scale urban farming initiatives are already underway and thus far have shown promising results.
