### Books in the Middle Ages

#### The story of how the written word emerged from the shadows of the medieval period

At the beginning of the European Middle Ages, books were extremely rare. Those that existed were produced entirely by hand and were very expensive, meaning that other than the  Catholic Church, which produced them, only the wealthy ever saw them, let alone owned them. Furthermore, education was only available to the clergy and the most affluent members of society. This meant that the vast majority of the population spent their lives labouring in fields, remaining completely illiterate, with everything they knew about history and mythology limited to the spoken-word stories and songs delivered to them by the bards, minstrels, and poets of the day. Society functioned in this manner for hundreds of years during this period until the printed book was introduced, marking a turning point in European society and changing how information was passed onto future generations.

The main reason so few books existed had to do with the fact that making one was an arduous process that took years to complete. Animal hides had to be cured to produce pages, and then ink had to be made by mixing pigments derived from various sources. This was followed by preparing quills with which to write and ruling lines on each page to guide where the script would be placed. Only once all these preparations had been completed could a scribe actually write the book, which involved transcribing every word by hand. Afterwards, illustrations could be added, the pages could be decorated with borders made of gold, silver, and copper leaf, and verything would be bound together. Essentially, the labor intensiveness involved in finishing a single copy of a book meant that very few were ever made and that only the elite could buy one.

Without a doubt, it was the Catholic Church taht maintained control over most books during the Middle Ages. Some monasteries even made it their mission to keep libraires full of the literary, scientific, and philosophical works of the ancient Greeks and Romans, preserving tghem through the ages. The ability of monasteries to have so much information yet keep such a tight rein on it was due to the fact that the Church was the most important facet of society at the time, above even the nobility, and that clergy members were among the few people capable of scribing and illustrating. Tasks like these were in such high demand among people wanting copies of the Bible that by the 14th century, certain monasteries were set aside for the sole purpose of producing them.

In 1445, a man by the name of Johann Gutenberg forever changed the lives of people in Europe, and eventually the entire world, with his invention of the printing press. Gutenberg's press could produce books quickly and cheaply, which resulted in two major changes in European society. The first was that papal authorities were no longer able to control literature and information; not only could books be printed outside of monasteries, but they were also available at such low prices that even the common man could purchase them. The second was that written works found their way to the general public. This incited more people to learn to read and write, which increased literacy rates considerably.
