### The Hazards of Multitasking

We live in a fast-paced world, and many people these days seem to feel as though it is necessary to complete as many tasks as possible at the same time in order to keep up. Multitasking, as this behaviour is known, may provide some with the sense that they are making efficient use of their time, but this is far from the truth. What is more, juggling more than one can handle can have detrimental effects on a person's physical health and mental well-being.

Contrary to popular belief, the human brain is ill-equipped to process multiple forms of information simultaneously - so ill-equipped that what we believe to be multitasking may not even be possible. Wehn people attempt to engage in multiple activities at once, what their brains are actually doing is frantically switching between tasks. Rather than giving their undivided attention to a single activity, people engaged in multitasking are able to focus on each thing they are trying to do for only a few seconds at a time. Repeatedly moving between tasks is, unsurprisingly, exhausting and makes it extremely difficult to filter information and recall it afterwards. Ultimately, multitasking is counterproductive in that it slows us down. Seeing one task through to completion before beginning another one is far more efficient, as the time it takes the brain to jump back and forth and refocus on an activity it was previously engaged in is time wasted.

If that wasn't bad enough, multitasking can lead to poor health. When the brain, the control system for the body's nervous system, attempts to conduct multiple tasks at the same time, it almost always releases stress hormones and adrealine. When this happens, the adrenaline provides a temporary energy boost, often resulting in the body accomplishing what it has been tasked to do, however inefficiently that may be. At the same time, though, the release of stress hormones causes blood pressure to rise, which most people know can be dangerous because it makes the heart work harder. While being stressed from time to time is to be expected, experiencing it all the time, as an increasing number of us do, can make us sick. In fact, the chronically stressed not only experience headaches, digestion problems, and a general sense of unease on a reqular basis, but they are also vulnerable to exhaustion, depression, and viruses, and are more likely to develop potentially fatal conditions, such as heart disease. All in all, while multitasking may seem like the only way to cope in a world full of stimuli, its potential to damage both our health and productivity is reason enough to avoid it.