### Europe's Commercial Revolution
#### The social and economic effects of international trade and colonisation

Europeans were introduced to spices, silks, and other goods from the Middle East during the Crusades, a series of holy wars aimed at driving Muslims from the region. Over the course of nearly two hundred years of war, many Middle Eastern products had become highly sought after, so when the Crusades finally came to an end in 1291, trade between Europe and the Middle East did not. Business between the two regions was carried out freely until 1453, when Constantinople was conquered. This mad land routes inaccessible, motivating Europeans to find new ways of reaching the Middle East, and by extension, Asia. These developments, combined with the rise of England, Portugal, and Spain as European powers, ushered in an age during which lucrative trade networks were established and new lands were colonised.

Christopher Columbus's 1492 voyage to the NEw World and Vasco da Gama's circumnavigation of Africa six years later were among Europe's first successes. Not long after, colonies were set up in the Americas, and trade routes connecting Europe to the rest of the world were established. In addition to spices and silks from the Middle East and Asia, Europeans began to import raw materials from Africa and the Americas to use in the production of goods that would be sold both domestically and abroad. Known as the Commercial Revolution, this period of European economic expansion between the 16th and 18th centuries had wide-reaching consequences.

One of the most immediate effects was inflation. Prior to the Commercial Revolution, much of Europe's gold and silver had been used to trade in the Middle East. With gold and silver mines exhausted and little money remaining in circulation, a downward trend in prices occurred. However, gold and silver began to pour into Europe once precious metals were discoverd in the New World. Spain alone imported more than 180 tonnes of gold and more than 16,000 tonnes of silver from its colonies between 1500 and 1650, and as this new money entered circulation, prices rose dramatically. Inflation was futher compounded by a rising demand for goods from a population recovering from the Black Death.

The Commercial Revolution also impoacted society profoundly. The currency surplus was beneficial for labourers, who could demand higher wages, but it also meant that is was costlier for the nobility to hire them. As a result, many members of the aristocracy had to sell off properties piecemeal to maintain their lifestyles. The buyers were not other members of the nobillity but newly wealthy merchants, many of whom fenced off the land. breaking with the tradition of the aristocracy permitting the peasants to cultivate it. With no fields to tend, farmers moved to cities and ultimately became the new urban workforce.

Although trade during the Commercial Revolution was highly profitable, war, wather, and piracy could cause major losses. Consequently, organisations called joint-stock companies were established to mitigate these hazards. Consigerd the forerunners of modern corporations, these businesses were privately owned companies that sold stock to investors for a shard of the profits. The money earned from selling shares was used to fund projects and acquired trade goods. And although there was still a chance that shipments would be destroyed, stolen, or lost, given the fact that there were generally numerous investors, the risk borne by the company and each stockholder was minimal.