The region between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in the Middle East is known to have been inhabited by primitive people for hundreds or even thousands of years before the development of a settled population. This area, which was named the 'Fertile Crescent' by early 19th-century archaeologist James Breasted for its fertility, provided a bounty of products from its soil, rivers, and wildlife that allowed these early inhabitants to feed themselves and their families. Eventually, this brought about the first active productio of food and, in turn, the first true settled civilisations. Over time, the ability of these civilisations to produce food with regularity led to an increase in the number of people in the area and, around 4500 B.C., something interesting happend. The people built a large, densely populated permanent settlement called Uruk,  which we now know as the first city.

The new city of Uruk had a large temple, homes, and other buildings created entirely with sun-dried bricks. This, according to historian Stephen Bertman, was due to the lack of timber and stone commonly used in construction eleswhere. We know that the use of these bricks allowed them to create large structures with columns, arches, and fortifying walls for the first time, but it doesn't explain why such a settlement was developed. In traditional retellings such as the Epic of Gilgamesh, the leader of the civilisation ordered the building of the city and its fortifications. However, research by anthropologist Jason Ur calls this into question. Acoording to Dr Ur's research, early urbanisation likely occurred organically, not because of a political ruler. He showed that different civilisations from the area settled around a central mound. These clusters allowed the different civilisations to live near one another, but kept the appropriate social distance. As time passed, they came together to form an interconnected city with one leader.