#### Is the Detective Novel a Literary Genre?

When Edgar Allen Poe introduced C. Auguste Dupin in the 1841 novel The Murders in the Rue Morgue, the word 'detective' was unhead-of. However, the idea of an intelligent amateur out-sleuthing the police intrigued many writers, who began creating crime fiction of their own. Yet, given the predictability of the plots and characters in these early tales, readers began to question whether the detective novel was even a genre at all.

These days, it is undeniable that crime fiction is far more complex than before. Mystery writer Simon Brett makes the point that crime in modern-day stories is no longer seen as black or white and that detectives are rarely portrayed as morally infallible anymore. He also refutes claims that detective stories follow a formula as cases are not always neatly resolved by the end, which shows that plotlines can be hard to predict. So what makes a crime fiction novel? At the very least, it is the fact that there is a mystery in every one.

But mystery nobelist Nicholas Blincoe believes that the similarities in detective stories extend further, making the genre easily identifiable; every story has a crime and its solution (or non-solution), a community where the crime has been committed, and central characters. These characteristics are necessary to define the genre but do not, argues Blincoe, limit it, suggesting that writers have a degree of freedom in many facets of their work. Acoording to him, crime fiction 'has produced the widest variety of archetypes and the most inventive improvistions in plot or character'.

That mainstream writers are known to incorporate elements of the crime fiction style into their work adds weight to the idea that the genre is dstinctive. According to the detective novelist Phyllis Dorothy James, sometimes detective story plots are found weaved into the much broader plots of other genres of fiction. She cites the example of John le Carre's 1974 novel Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. In this story, which is technically an espionage novel, the main character emerges from retirement to take a case that happens to involve a common theme in crime fiction - a race against time to identify a wrongdoer.

According to crime fiction aficionado George Demko, another characteristic that sets crime fiction aprat is how the setting is used. Specifically, detective mysteries often take place in a real place and time, and this has a significant impact on the case. He discusses this in an essay, providing the example of how widespread corruption was usually emphasised in crime novels set in Mexico during the 1940s. By expaining that the perpetrator's surroundings were part of the reason the crime was committed, readers were left to ponder whether society as a whole shared responsibility for the terrible actions of an individual.

Perhaps the simplest argument for detective fiction deserving its own genre is that people from all walks of life read it. That it is both engaging and suspenseful is certainly a draw for many devoted fans, but maybe the popularity of crime fiction goes far deeper, playing on people's innate desire to know the truth. The modernist poet T. S. Eliot, himself a great fan of detective novels, believed their appeal lay in the mathematical bequty of their mysteries. Ultimately, by presenting mysteries that only the best can solve, whodunits appeal to our inner natures.