Many parrents complain that their children are no longer the same people they once were. During their preadolescent stage, these children were generally docile and amenable. They were very loving and attached to their parents who probably had no trouble interacting with them. At this point, many parents believe that they have a string bond with their children that will never weaken. Unfortunately for them, this stage only lasts until about the ages of 10-13. As children enter adolescence, they undergo changes that can make them quite diffeicult to deal with. This period of increased conflict with parents, rapid mood changes, and increasingly risky behaviour caused early psychologist G. S. Hall to refer to this early tyeenage period as the 'storm and stress' stage.

One reason for the undesirable behaviours associated with this teenage stage is the rapid change that the body goes through at this time. The adolescent's body is maturing rapidly and it may appear that they are adults acing with childish impulsivity and emotional instability. This can frustrate parents, but is simply a sign that the frontal olbes of the brain, the areas that control these behaviours, are not yet fully developed. In fact, Donald Stuss has found that the frontal obes sometimes do not fully mature until the early to mid-twenties. In addition to these physical changes, the adolescent's social interactions are undergoing major changes as well. Most adolescents will become distant from their parents and focus on external relationships as they prepare to enter society as an aadult on their own. This distance is more pronounced now than when it was proposed in the 1950s. Today, a more interconnected world has dramatically increased the number of social relationships we develop outside the family. Adolescents now must figure out who they are while living in larger cities and interacting with more people both in real world situations and through online interactions and social media. This can lead to greater identity confiusion than in the past and may increase the stress of parents dealing with the 'storm and stress' stage in their adolescents.