Sleep is a necessity for all animals which, according to some scientists,could reveal something about our shared evolutionary ancestry. Because of its universality, many early sleep researchers felt that it must have begun very early in animal evolution. However, this view is contested by some scientists, such as Jerry Siegel of the University of California, who suggests that the need for sleep could have developed in each species separately. 'It could be more of a acase of convergent evolution, he states, suggesting that sleep is 'an adaption to an animal's environment' rather than a trait inherited from a common evolutionary anscestor. Siegel's theory is backed up by the massive variation in sleep paterns across  different species, form possums that can sleep for up to 18 hours a day, to birds that take hundreds of short naps every day. He has also discoverd that dolphins, which are renowned for their ability to put one side of their brain to sleep at a time, have another unique sleep pattern. After an adult dolphin gives birth, neither she nor her offspring will sleep for an extended period of time. This practice, the opposite of what occurs in land mammals, suggests that animals adapt their own system sof sleep, rather than inherit a univeral one. Nonetheless many scientists still hope to find an overarching theory for why all animals need sleep. Paul Shaw, a researcher at Washington University in St. Louis, claims that because 'sleep is costly' in terms of vulnerability to ambush from other animals, ther must be an underlying evolutionary reason for its universality. Shaw cites sleep research pioneer Alan Rechtschaffen, who stated, 'If sleep doesn't serve an absolutely vital function, it is the biggest mistake evolution ever made.'