#### The Importance of Gesture

Gesture is a vital and often overlooked element of communication. It can be either a supplement to spoken language or an autonomous language system in its own right. Congitive scientist Philip Lieverman has suggested that gesture is actually the oldest form of language and that it originated in the pre-linguistic stage of human evolution. Lieerman has carried out research into the use of gesture by both primates and infants to support his theory. Lieberman contends that language was formed from non-verbal gestures, rather than gesture emerging from language, and that our current use of gesture stems from pre-linguistic communication.

As Natasha Abner, Kensy Cooperrider and Susan Goldin-Meadow state in their article 'Gesture of Linguists: A Handy Primer', gestures can be broadly split into two categories, communicative and informative. The former includes intentionally produced communicative gestures which are consciously used in addition to verbal communication, either to provide emphasis or  through modifying the literal meaning. Informative communication, on the other hand, refers to passive or involuntary gestures that are not necessarily part of a communicative act, but can nevertheless alter the meaning of such an act. Adam Kendon, co-editor of the journal Gesture and a global authority on the subject, has developed a categorisation system for differentiating various gestures. These include 'gesticulation', a gesture which mirrors accompanying speech, 'speech-framed gestures', which replace part of a sentence, 'emblems', conventionalised signs like the 'OK' symbol made by touching the index finger and thumb, which occur outside verbal communication, and 'signs', gestures with lexical meaning in a system of sign language. Kendon cites the longstanding interest in gesture in Western culture as evidence of its importance to communication. This interest was evident during the Classical era when gesture was considered a crucial part of effective rhetoric, as the Roman philosopher and politician Cicero emphasised in his work De Oratore. It is also apparent in the unique gestural systems of religions from Catholicism to Buddhism, through which adherents can communicate a variety of complex maenings.

The contemporary academic interest in gesture derives both its roots in humankind's pre-linguistic stage, which suggests that gesture is a univeral form of communication, and the recent interest in close psychological reading of face-to-face communication, from which it is possible to garner numerous non-verbal gestural cues. The complexity of gesture as a system of individual communication is evident in the range of gesture variants that can express different meanings. Genevieve Calbris suggests that gesture variants reveal how ' gesture is not a word illustrator but represents an underlying thought that is formulated and expressed during the course of an utterance'. This is apparent in Calbris's analysis of gestures related to time, which can express complex and varied meanings about duration without the use of verbal communication. According to Calbris, these wide-ranging gestural variants reveal the complexity of this system of communication, which can both accentuate and alter the meaning of verbal communications.