#### Climate Change and Human Conflict

For as long as academics have been researching climate change, it has been theorised that a change in weather will result in lact of rain and soil degradation. While many of us think immediately of the ecological repercussions, fewer of us realise that the loss of arable land and the ensuing poor crop yields will likely lead to higher rates of poverty, political instability, famine, war, and ultimately death for a large percentage of humanity.

It is, of course, beyond the power of researchers to alter a region's climate to determine whether this will infact come to pass. However, by studying the existing documentation on weather disturbances and their link to human conflicts throughout history, researchers can draw some conclusions and speculate about what might happen in the future. A team headed by Solomon Hsiang of the University of California at Berkeley has perhaps come as close as possible to predicting how climate change will affect human behaviour.

According to their research, extreme weather does show a strong correlation with a rise in human conflict. Specifically, the frequency of interpersonal and intergroup violence rose by 4 and 14 per cent, respectively, for each standard deviation change in climate toward warmer temperatures or more extreme rainfall. Dr Hsiang's conclusion is startling. He argues that because locations throughout the inhabited world are expected to warm significantly by 2050, this climate change will result in an increase in human conflicts in the next 30 years.

Are there recent situations that bear out Dr Hsiang's conclusions? Sadly, yes. Darfur is perhaps the best example. In 2007, Achim Steiner, executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme, published a research report calling Darfer 'the first climate change war'. The nation has experienced a 30 per cent drop in precipitation in the last 40 years, and in the early 2000s, a lack of rainfall in the northern part of the country caused agricultural production to drop sharply. With no food or water to sustain them, more than two million people migrated to refugee camps in the south, where tensions began to mount, and conflict eventually broke out in 2003. It is estimated that as many as 500,000 civilians died, and this does not include those who perished from starvation.

Other academics, such as agricultural economist Marshall Burke of the University of CAlifornia contend that Darfur is hardly the first climate change war. He points to sub-Saharan Africa as having a history of civil wars due to warmer temperatures. Somalia, for instance, has been at war now for over two decades. And some academics, such as University of South Carolina professor Edward Carr, have criticised Dr Hsiang's study. Carr emphasised that focusing solely on climate as a conflict cause is both reductive and dangerous, suggesting that it might disproportionately influence policy decisions in unproductive or even problematic directions.

According to Dr Carl Schleussner of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 'Devastating climate-related natural disasters have a disruptive potential that seems to play out in ethnically fractionalised societies in a particualrly tragic way'. Essentially, because the entire country is faced with famine due to climate change and ther is no clear majority group, peoples' allegiances lie with their respective clans. And because each clan has the same goal - gain more land to enable survival - violent disputes among groups have been unavoidable.