Despite being less than 250 years old, the United States has become one of the world's economic powerhouses. Although the country's location, vast size, and abundant natural resources played a large role in its success, these would have had little impact without advances in the transportation industry. Until around 1800, the country relied mainly on water-based transportation, such as ships and boats for its cargo needs, Since the  country was rather small and most early cities were on teh East Coast, early Americans could easily trade with one another and with their European trading partners using this form of transportation. However, as the 19th century got underway, the Louisiana Purchase doubled the size of the nation and it eventually reached the WEst Coast. This resulted in vast interior areas that were not accessible by boat and therefore ended the water-based transportation era. The problem was solved by the construction of the transcontinental rail system, which brought the country into the land-based transportation era. The new railways allowed large-scale shipping of large items from one coast to the other for the first time. Later, after the invention of the automobile, highways mirrored this transcontinental system and people could easily drive across the country on their own. These land-based systems dominated transportation in Ameria until the mid to late-1900s. The following period saw the simultaneous rise of air travel and information technology. As the air-baed transportation ear began, people could travel or send parcels across the country in a matter of hours rather than days or weeks, and transferring information became instantaneous.