In nature, most animals avoid eating things that have a bitter taste. This occurs, according to Oxford researcher J. Zhang, because bitterness often indicates toxicity. Therefore, animals can prolong their lives by avoiding bitter foods. Using this knowledge, some manufacturers have begun using bitter flavours to act as an animal repellent. In fact, researcher A. L. Riley showed in his research taht applying bitter compounds to objects could train birds to avoid them. Interestingly, humans seem to have lost the aversion to bitterness that other animals display. This can be seen through our use of bitter flavours in commercial food production. Food manufacturers have developed 'bittering agents' specifically to add this flavour to certain foods.

A good example of the use of these bittering agents occurs in the brewing of beer. The hops that brewers add to their product are meant to impact a bitter flavour to balance the sweetness of the sugars  that ferment in the malt. This is also the reason that caffeine is added to colas. When its caffeine is removed, cola is simply cloying fizzy water and must be balanced with another bittering agent. One of these is liquids are now widely used in food and cocktail preparation, but they once had a very different use. They were seen as health tonics. This was exactly the case with the popular 'bitters' produced by the House of Angostrua. Dr Johann Gottlieb Benjamin Siegert developed the comcoction to ease seasickness and marketed the product to sailors. Over time, his product cam to be used to cut the sweetness of drinks such as lemonade or the Sazerac cocktail.