#### Does Yawning Have a Function?

Yheories for why we yawn date back more than 2,000 years to the time of Hippocrates, who considered yawning to be the respiratory system's way of removing 'bad air' from the lungs. Centuries later, scientists claimed that yawning indicated a lack of oxygen to the brain. Today, we know that neither of these theories has strong scientific merit, prompting contemporary researchers to carry on trying to unravel the mystery of one of our most common biological reflexes.

Robert Provine, a neuroscientist at the University of Maryland, points to the obvious, noting that people tend to yawn most when they are bored, hungry, and fatigued. Because all of these states can easily lead to the inaility to focus on whatever task is at hand, he believes that yawning is our bodies' way of alerting us that we need to perk up. When this theory was tested, it was found that subjects did in fact tend to engage in some sort of physical activity directly after yawning, suggesting that the subjects' yawns led to their getting up and seeking out stimulation. Essentially, Provine contends that yawning occurs due to an absence of stimuli and is simply how our bodies try to regain focus.

Then again, so many things seem to cause people to yawn that it is hardly satisfying to simply blame a lack of stimulation. One stiuation many of us are probably familiar with is being unable to control ourselves from yawning after seeing someone else yawn. A team of researcher from the University of Leeds headed by Catriona Morrison believe that this has to do with our inclination to show empathy for other people. In other words, if someone yawns in exhaustion, and others in the romm follow suit, it is likely because they identify with and feel symathy for the original yawner. This claim is substantiated by studies demonstrating that yawning is most contagious among members of the same family or social group and lowest among those with autism and psychopathy, conditions associated with the inability to empathise.

Meanwhile, evolutionary psychologist Gordon Gallup of the University of Albany builds on both Provine's and Morrison's theories with his hypothesis that yawning developed as a way to alert group members to potential threats. Agreeing that yawning is followed by a feeling of improved attentiveness and that it is contagious, he believes that early humans capitalised on these effects to quickly convey the message to others that it was necessary to be on guard against attacks. Essentially, if everyone was yawning and feeling more alert because of it, the likelihood of falling prey to a predator was far lower.