## The Snowball Earth Hypothesis
#### Analysing the theory that Earch was once a giant ice-covered snowball

A debaste has been raging among scientists about the pausibility of the 'snowball Earth' bypothesis, which posits that the Earch was once completely covered in ice and snow. If this theory is true, it could explain many geological mysteries, but some claim the palent could not have recovered from such a deep freeze.

Imagin an Earch entirely covered by ice, from the poles to the equator, where little to no life survives and temperatures are perpetually far below zero. That is the proposition of the 'snowball Earth' bypothesis. This is a contentious theory that suggests that the Earch was entierly frozen for at least one period in its history, and scientists are divided on how to interpret the geological record and the debate over the hypothesis is ongoing.

Acoording to propoents of the theory this deep freeze occurred over 650 million years ago in at least one of three periods, the Neoproterozoic, the Palaeoproterozoic or the Karoo  Ice Age. Scientists are however divided on both the geological evidence and the likelihood of Earch eviving, and fostering life, after such a period, as well as when exactly this could have taken place. Proponents nevertheless suggest taht the theory explains some of the mysteries of the geological record.

The first geologist to put forward the idea of a snowball Earch was Douglas Mawson who discovered glacial sediments in southern Australia in the mid-20th century, which he took as evidence of global glaciation. However, this theory was superseded by the idea of  continental drift, which more readily explained the existence of glaciers in Australia and other landmasses. The snowball Earch gtheory was revived in the 1960s by W.Brian Harland who suggested that glacial sediments in Greenland were actually deposited nearer to the tropics. According to Harland, the only thing that could account for these deposits was an extreme, worldwide ice age.

It  was not until the 1990s that Joseph Kirschvink, a Professor of geobiology, coined the term 'snowball Earth' to describe this ice age. Kirschvink also proposed an ultra-greenhouse effect as a way in which the Earth may have escaped from this glacial condition. Kirschvink's ideas were taken up by Franklyn Van Houten, who stated that phosphorus deposits and banded iron formations proved that the Earch had once been ice covered.

According to proponents of the snowball Earth hypothesis, there are several ways in which botun the geological record and climate models support the theory. The nost persuasive is perhaps the evidence of palaeomagnetism, a  recent development in geology which can show when and where geological deposits were made, whilst taking into account continental drift. Through palaeomagnetism it has been possible to show that sediments of glacial origin were deposited near to the equator during the Neoproterozoic era. However scientists are sceptical of this conclusion due to other plausible explanations, such as the possibility that the Earth's magnetic field has shifted over time and the existence of an earlier magnetic pole near the equator which could account for these deposits.

The snowball Earth hypothesis has also been challenged on the grounds that glacial deposits could be accounted for by continents breaking up and causing a tectonic uplift, which would create extremely high plateaus where glaciers could potentially form. This theory of continental separation has been proposed by Nicholas Eyles, Professor of Geology at the University of Toronto, as the 'Zipper Rift hypothesis'. In this scenario, the separation of continents creates these high plateaus where glaciations occur, thus limiting the snowball effect to certain areas of the planet.

As Eyles' research suggests, one of the main points of contention of the snowball Earth debate is the extent to which this big freeze took hold across the planet. Many geologists and climate scientists claim that a 'hard snowball' effect, in which the planet is completely enveloped in ice sheets, would have obliterated life on Earth forever. They thus say that the most likely scenario was a partial freeze, in which some parts of the ocean remained free of ice.

The lack of a mass extinction event in the geological record proves that the snowball Earth was more temperate than some claim. They argue that carbon dioxide built up during the cold period, when vegetation was reduced and could not remove as much of it from the atmosphere. In turn, the carbon dioxide warmed the planet, leading to widespread thawing and release of water into the soil. Francis Macdonald, an Earth scientist at Harvard University, who has carried out research into volcanic rocks in Canada that suggested that the global glaciation did indeed occur, has suggested that in fact Earth wasn't 'just a white ball, but more of a mud ball' during this period.

This idea of a 'mud ball' rather than a sonwball has gained many adherents among geologists. Richard Peltier of the University of Toronto says, 'The suggestion that the Earth was once entirely covered by ice - the continents by thick ice sheets and the oceans by thick sea ic - remains somewhat contentious.' Peltier created a climate model which suggests what actually occurred during the Neoproterozoic era was a 'negative feedback reaction', in which the Earth oscillated between 'glaciations and de-glaciations'.

Peltier's model demonstrated that despite deep glaciations across the planet, a large amount of water remained unfrozen in the tropical regions of the planet. This has been termed the 'slushball Earth' hypothesis, and it is supported by many who cite the  survival of life during this period as evidence of a less extensive global freeze. If the slushball Earth hypothesis is true then a band of ice-free waters would have persisted around the equator; most experts now agree that this was the most probable situation.

The debate over the snowball Earth hypothesis seems to continue, although it is clear that some form of glaciation did occur. The idea of a completely frozen Earth nonetheless remains a thriving area of research, not only for geology but also for climate science. A recent study by Linda Sohl of Columbia University revealed how climate models using the snowball Earth theory can offer insight into future climate change, and the potential repercussions of catastrophic global climate shifts. As Sohl states, 'Studying snowball Earth glaciations can tell us jsut how bad it can get, in which case life as we know it would probably not survive.'

