### The Fifth Language Skill
#### Culture is often left out of language courses, but some claim that it is the most important aspect of picking up a new language.

Language learners and instrctors know that four skills are needed to be able to communicate in any language: speaking, listening, reading and writing. This 'communicative approach' to language has long been the primary basis of second language learning environments. In this approach, some information about culture may be provided to language learners, but the overwhelming emphasis is on the four skills and basic, mostly literal, communication. Of late, however, more emphasis is being palced on the fifth language skill of cultural communication, as more and more experts are stressing the importance of assimilating the culture associated with a language. In fact, this 'intercultural approach' is now considerd so essential that it cannot be avoided if learners hope to gain true command of any language.

Thie intercultural apprach to language learning first attracted the attention of language experts after the publication of Louise Damen's Culture Learning: The Fifth Dimension in the Language Classroom. In it, she outlined the need for both intercultural awareness and intercultural skill development, and put both of these aims under the umbrella term 'pragmatic ethnography.' The implication of Damen's intercultural approach is that native language skills and competence in the target language are insufficient for instruction and that educators must function more like experienced cultural guides who are traind observers and capable of facilitating effective intercultural communication.

In the cultural context of second language learning, a useful heuristic paradigm is a four-stage model of language acquisition that separates understanding into four levels: tourist, survivor, immigrant, and citizen (Acton and Waler de Felix, 1995). Under this model, it is impossible for any person to acquire a citizen level of communicative cometence if they do not have a thorough understanding of the myriad cultural aspects of language, and such an achievement is likely only for highly motivated students who are both willing to acculturate and are from a culture that is not extreme in its 'social distance' from the culture of the target language (Schumann, 1978).

Thus, it goes without saying that the 'big four' language skills alone are not always enough for a foreign speaker to fully master a second language or gain acceptance among a community of native speakers. Without cultural sensitivity and awareness, and a careful reflection of his or her own values, norms, and attitudes, a person's linguistic ability alone may not prevent the perception that they are an 'outsider'. To achieve status of an 'insider', he or she must learn to not only recognise and accept cultural differences but also to appreciate and value them.

But what culture should be taught in classrooms? For simplicity and convenience, researchers refer to 'Big C' and 'little c' culture to distinguish the more formal elements of a culture from those that are encountered in less formal, everyday situations. Big C culture corresponds to the social, political, and economic institutions of a given society as well as the great historical figures that contributed to the artistic, literary, and scientific achievements of that society (National Standards in Foreign Language Education Project, 1996), while little c culture represents the sum of patterns of behaviour that members of a given culture consider necessary for daily life, including clothing, housing, food, transportation, etc.

Another way to look at it is that the former represents the 'elite' culture of high society, whereas the latter corresponds to the interests and activities of ordinary people. This does not mean there is no overlap at all, however, because even though citizens spend their time with mundane tasks like greeting people, working, or shopping, they are nonetheless interested in bigger issues, such as social stratification and economic policy, which directly impact their lives. It is generally the case that littel c culture is the most absent in language curricula and the most difficult to include due to its continually changing nature.

Yet a problematic issue exists with the epithet 'fifth skill' itself, which suggests that culture is an 'added on' element to language learning rather than a fundamental one. Kramsch (1993) claims that culture is always in the background, right from day one, ready to unsettle the good language learners when they expect it least, making evident the limitations of their hard-won communicative competence, challenging their ability to make sense of the world around them. This axiomatic approach to culture as an integral and inescapable part of communication underscores the importance of, and the challenges inherent in, language teaching.

Therefore, some educators think that culture should be viewed as the first, rather than the fifth, skill (Tomlinson 1999). Although this primacy of culture is a noble goal, it is nonetheless hopeful thinking to assume that it can be easily prioritised in a curriculum or that teachers are generally capable of carrying it out. The language curriculum is already full as it is, and language teachers typically have very limited instruction time with any given student or group of students. Many educators are not trained to handle this burden and, thus, in-service training and faculty development would be necessary to put culture at the centre of the language curriculum. The bottom line is that any 'fifth skill' time in the classroom will need to be supplemented by an enormously greater number of hours spent by the student immersing himself or herself in the culture of the target language 'in the real world'.