#### Harnessing the Immense Power of the Tides

Increasing demographic pressures and environmental concerns about climate change have been the impetus for global research into feasible alternative energy sources. Being clean, abundant, and renewable, water power is an obvious resource to turn to. However, building large-scale hydroelectric dams, as has been done in the past, is no longer an ideal solution as the hydropower facilities currently in use are known to cause a number of devastating ecological and social issues. But all hope is not lost for water power as research is now focused on harnessing the incredible power of the tides to generate clean energy with minimal repercussions.

In fact, the fundamental technology is already available, as is evident in the tidal power plants being operated today. A good example is France's La Rance, the first tidal power plant in the world. La Rance is a barrage, which means that it is essentially a very large dam built across an estuary. Rather than storing water until it is needed as hydroelectric facilities do, water at La Rance flows through the dam and is colected in a basin whenever the tide comes in. Then, as soon as the tide goes out, the water in the basin is released and passes through terbines in order to generate electricity. While the dam at La Rance still poses a possible threat to the local ecosystem, electricity production by this means is extraordinarily reliable. Given that tidal forces are generated by gravity and the ongoing movements of the Earth - forces that are unlikely to change - it is possible to accurately predict the rise and fall of tides and by extension, when electricity can be produced.

Recognising that tides have incredible potential that many never be realised unless the environmental impact of such technology can be reduced, engineers are now working to develop hydroelectric technologies without using dams. One solution they have come up with is to install turbines on the sea floor relatively close to the shore in order to exploit underwater tidal currents. To produce energy, the underwater turbines would sopn as the surf rose and fell, sending electricity through a cable to an onshore power station. This method is very promising as evidience suggests that it would result in limited environmental harm. For example, this technology would not create the damage to aquatic organisms that is frequently caused by dams. Furthermore, because tidal farms would be located underwater, they would not be an eyesore or cause a nose disturbance - both common complaints about wind farms.

It is true that initial costs of constructing the appropriate infrastructure for a tidal farm would be high. However, research suggests that the maintenance and the replacement of equipment would be required infrequently, making it worthwhile in the long run to invest in ths extremely efficient energy source. Ultimately, while there is no way of knowing what the future of tidal power will be, one thing is clear: the ocean, our most abundant and inexhaustible resource, has tremendous potential.