#### Nature or Nurture: Which One Sharpes Us More?

Two main topics direct the study of human emotion: nature and nurture. Biological determinists believe emotion is determined by nature and that it develops intrinsically. According to this view, a person's genes affect how an individual behaves and changes over time. Meanwhile, social determinists believe emotion is shaped by nurture, meaning that environment plays the main role in emotional development. To them, variables such as parenting, poverty, education, and exposure to violence can impact a child's emontional state permanently. So, which plays a greater role?

The primary point made by social determinists is that substantial differences can and do occur in the psychological and behavioural patterns of growing children that can only be explained by experiential factors. The assumption that someone is born a certain way, they argue, offers an immediate defence for unwarranted behaviour and severs human responsibility from human action. It is reasonable to accept that a child's home environment, the opportunities he or she is given, and how the child is raised factor into the sort of adult that child grows up to be to some degree. However, the view of social determinists implies that the underlying character of a child will change if his or her environmental circumstances do, which is not always the case. Ultimately, findings suggest that when it comes to the fundamental traits that dictate our emotional responses to any number of environmental situations, genes take centre stage.

Evidence for the biological approach can be found in the shared emotional reactions of people growing up in different cultures. For their 1976 work Unmasking the Face, neuropsychologists Paul Ekman and Wallance Friesen undertook an extensive cross-cultural study of facial expressions. Ekman and Friesen interviewed isolated tribes in Papua New Guinea and showed them photographs of people identify facial expressions with particular emotions but they could also describe situations in which the expressions may arise. This led the authors to conclude that six basic human emotions (anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness, surprise), as well as the physical expression of those emotions, are universal among people no matter which environment they grow up in.

Recent evidence from the study of twins has also suggested that nature plays a greater role in impacting our emotional development than nurture. In a study at Edinburgh University led by Professor Timothy Bates, more than 800 sets of fraternal and identical twins were asked a series of questions in order to assess their personality traits. In the end, it was found that identical twins, who share the exact same genetic information, are more than twice as likely to possess the same personality traits as fraternal twins, whose genetic information is not shared. Given that each set of siblings shared the same home environment and parents, the researchers concluded that DNA had a more substantial impact on how people behaved than environmental factors. Further substantiating this idea are the numerous studies on children adopted into homes with other siblings. Most indicate that, even if the child is an infant when he or she is adopted, the family's effect on his or her personality is often practically negligible.