Today, one in three seniors is suffering from one form of dementia or another. To deal with this debilitating health problem, many patients and their families are turning to alternative treatments. One of these is music therapy. At its core, music therapy works as a traditional therapy with the addition of singing, playing, or listening to music.

While this type of treatment will not cure cases of dementia, it can help patients recall memories and ease the anxiety they often feel. Neurologist Oliver Sacks believes that this occurs because listening to music evokes emotions that stimulate memories and increase cognitive ability. One of the main reasons for this is that music plays a large role in every stage of our lives. While we may not consciously think about it, we oftem associate music with certain activities and events. By playing music that was important at one point in the patient's life, long forgotten memories may be recalled. This could occur when playing music that was popular during a certain time period or music that was played for a special event, like a jazz song heard in a movie or a song at a patient's wedding. Music therapy can also help patients remain independent longer. By pairing music with everyday activities, patients can learn to associate the music and its patterns with the activity. This can help them recall the activity much longer.

Perhaps the most interesting discovery about music therapy is that it even works with non-verbal, late-stage patients who have lost the ability to control their emotions. These patients have very different needs than others, because they are not able to express themselves. This may cause them to feel trapped and frustrated. Oftentimes, this can lead to agitation and disruptive behaviour. By introducing music therapy activities, such as singing, dancing, or rhythm playing, the patients' attention can be redirected and they may be able to find a way to express themselves through music, which will calm them. Surprisingly, these effects take place almost immediately and continue after the music therapy session has ended. Studies by music therapist and researcher Dr Linda A. Gerdner have shown that they can be seen for at least one hour after the therapy session.