### Introverts and Extroverts: Expaining Different Personalities
#### The Science Behind a Fundamental Concept in Human Personality Theory

In his 1923 book Psychological Types, analytical psychologist Carl Jung identified two types of person: the introvert and the extrovert. The former was described as a shy, sensitive, socially anxious being while the latter was portrayed as a gregarious sort who enjoyed spending most of his or her time in the company of others. Although Jung's early classification of two personality types was generally accurate and has stood the test of time, the underlying reasons for introversion and extroversion were never scientifically analysed. It was not until recently that modern psychological researchers began presenting more nuanced and factual interpretations of the extroversion-introversion spectrum.

Contemporary researchers have found that the brains of extroverts actually release a significant amount of dopamine, the neurotransmitter that controls the brain's pleasure centre, during social interaction. Consequently, an extrovert's brain activity noticeably increases when he or she is smiled at, for instance. And because they are rewarded for social engagement, extroverts feel compelled to seek it out by constantly displaying attractive behaviour, such as smiling, cracking jokes, and being friendly. Essentially, we now know that what were once considered the characteristics of extroverts are, in relity, the tools that extroverted people use to obtain the chemical rewards they want to receive.

These tools may seem like a positive thing on the surface, but they are not without fault. A high investment in time and energy is required to gain social rewards, leaving little energy for less socially oriented tasks. Some studies have even shown that extroverts are more likely than introverts to be injured from physical activities because extroversion is correlated with a higher tendency to explore one's environment. Others indicate that extroverts are poor financial planners since they are far more willing than their introvert counterparts to spend impulsively, especially if it will produce a social reward.

So, given that introverted people are on the opposite side of the spectrum from extroverts, does that mean they experience no social rewards and therefore have no desire to interact with others? No, but because the reward value from social experiences is markedly less for introverts, it is understandable why they often have no compulsion to seek other people out. Science has yet to find a satisfactory explanation for why their social rewards are few, but some experts believe human evolution has something to do with it. One theory postulates that having a complex social life drove the evolution of intelligence, creativity, language, and even consciousness aming our early ancestors, who essentially had to be extroverted in order to survive. The emergence of introverts was only made possible once survival was no longer dependent upon gaining the attention and assistance of others, and spending more time on intellectual pursuits was an option.

Although introverts do not experience a significant release of dopamin in social situations, the opposite is true when they pour their energies into intellectual and imaginative projects. It's no surprise, then, that many of the world's geniuses and great inventors have been introverts. It takes significant time in solitude to work through complex mathematical, scientific, or philosophical puzzles, after all. So while extroverts may have palyed a substantial role in the evolution of our species up until now, the contributions of introverts are certainly not to be overlooked.
