#### The Emergence of Writing

In order to understand the origins of writing, it is necessary to debunk a couple of once-popular theories about language and culture. First, languages are not descended from a single prototype, as many scholars have suggested. That view largely derived from a Biblical interpretation of the origin of language and geld that writing systems emerged in ancient Mesopotamia, and then spread and evolved throughout the rest of the world. Further, 19th century sociologists who applied the biological theory of evolution to language development viewed writing as not only having a common ancestor but also exhibiting an evolutionary hierarchy, which placed alphabetical scripts above ideographic or syllabic writing systems. In the context of the linguistic history of the ancient world, that perspective presented European and Near Eatern cultures as more highly evolved than those of Asia, Africa, and Mesoamerica. Nothing could be futher from the truth given that empires rich in cultural splendour, complete with magnificent architecture, art, laws and infrastructure, were built by civilisations with non-alphabetic scripts.

Scholars now agree that the advent of writing seems to coincide with the transition from nomadic lifestyles to more permanent agrarian ones = because people were growing food and tending to livestock, it became necessary to develop ways of keeping track of inventory and property. It is also agreed that different forms of writing developed not only in the Fertile Crescent, but also within the ancient societies of Asia and MEsoamerica and that none of these civilisations had any contact with one another during this time. Of these geographical areas, it is most likely that the earliest writing occurred in the Fertule Cresent territory of Sumer, possibly as early as 8000 B.C. The ancient Sumerians originally used tokens, such as small clay triangles, spheres, and cones, to symbolise sheep, measures of grain, jars of oil, and other goods. Basically, the shape of the token carried the meaning of the word that ws being represented. Eventually, the Sumerians began pressing the tokens into soft clay tablets, much as one would use stamps, to transcribe their dealings. Much later, around 3100 B.C., the Superians invented numerals, separating the symbol for an object from the number of an object, suggesting that writing and mathematics could have evolved together. Archeological excavations at Uruk, once the largest city of the ancient world, show that the Sumerian script gradually advanced from pictographs to ideographic writing, meaning that some symbols represented concepts rather than just the symbol itself. At that point, writing was alrady developing into a tool that went beyond simply transmitting information; it was becoming a means of communicating ideas, sharing knowledge, and recording history.