Phenetics is the systematic classification of organisms based on their morphological, or structural, similarities. Although, on its surface, phenetics seems to be a valid classification method, there are some problems with it. Perhaps the most important of these is that phenetic classifications sometimes show inaccurate evolutionary relationships between species. Palaeontologists have discovered that phenetic classifications can indicated relationships where they do not actually exist. This most likely occurs when species that seem similar are not closely related, but are actually at similar evolutionary levels. This inaccuracy can cause pheneticists to separate an organism from its evolutionary group, because it has a unique evolutionary adaptation. It can also lead to erroneously showing relationships between organisms with similar primitive traits. This classification of dinosaurs is a good example of these problems. We now know that birds from the Mesozoic era and some dinosaurs from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods have very similar skeletal structures, indicating that they share an evolutionary link. Howerver, dinosaurs adre generally luped in with lizards and alligators - species that they are more disstantly related to - as reptiles. One of the reasons for this is the presence of a unique evolutionary adaptation in birds, feathers. Since we did not traditionally believe that dinosaurs had feathers, pheneticists inaccurately classified them based on other physical features. All of this shows the most inherent problem with phenetic classification: it is entirely done through the subjective observations of the pheneticist. Sice there is no hierachical classification in morphological similarity, researchers must make the ultimate decision based on their subjective observations.