Over the course of time, members of the genus Homo have undergone a great deel of evolutionary change to morph into anatomically modern humans - members of the Homo sapiens species that have the physical features of modern humans. Today, it is commonly believed by the scientific community that earlier species of Homo sapiens evoved in eastern Africa around 200,000 years ago. In fact, the earliest anatomically modern human fossils were discoverd there dating to about 1950,000 years ago. Members of this species gradually migrated out of their African homeland and by 60,000 years ago one group had settled in Eurasia and the Middle East. This brought them in contact with another early human species that had previously left Africa, the Neanderthals. Some scientists believe that this interaction brought about violent clashes between the two groups, which eventually led to the extinction of the Neanderthals.

However, separate evolution is probably a more likely explanation for their disappearance. Despite their shared heritage, these two groups of early humans had evolved quite differently, both physically and intellectually. In their time in more northerly climates, the Neanderthals had become broader, stronger, and more acclimated to cold than the early anatomically modern humans. In other words, they would have physically dominated the newly arrived Homo sapiens. However, diffences in brain structure seemed to have had a bigger impact on the two species. Paleoanthropologist Chris Stringer says that Homo sapiens had a bigger impact on the two species. Paleoanthropologist Chris Stringer says that Homo sapiens had larger frontal lobes, the area of the brain that produces abstract, creative thoughts, than Neanderthals. This would have allowed them to develop more efficient methods of hunting and gathering, as well as food processing techniques that saved energy. These more advanced skills would have given them enough of an advantage over the Neanderthals to prevail in the long term, and that appears to be what has happend.