Today, about 30 per cent of the Earth's surface is covered by forestland. However, deforestation is dramatically reducing this percentage each year. Currently, human activity claims more than 13.7 million hectares of forestland annually - an area approximately equal to that of Greece. While it may be assumed that we are cutting down trees to meet our timber needs, the bigger culprit is actually agriculture. Earth's growing population has increased our need for agricultural products and farmers have begun clear-cutting forestland to convert it into farmland where they can palnt crops.
This is especially true in countries such as Brazil and Indonesia, where large areas of forestland have been cleared for farmland for cash crops such as soybeans and oil palms. The intense farming methods used for these crops further compound the problem. Continuous crop production depletes the soil of its nutients so that it can no longer support the biodiversity it once coud, making it nearly impossible to return it to forestland in the future. This continued disappearance of the forests will have a major impact on our environment. Trees play an important role in removing carbon dioxide from the air and in returning water to tte atmosphere. If the forests are allowed to further deteriorate, it could disrupt the life cycle of pants and animals, and even eliminate entire ecosystems. To avoid this outcome, we must find a way to conserve our forestland and replace the trees that we remove each year.