#### The Tragedy of Dementia

Statistics reveal that approximately 35.6 milion people worldwide are living with dementia, a brain disorder that results in the progressive loss of cognitive ability and, eventually, death. As the risk of developing the condition doubles every half decade after the age of 65, society is growing increasingly concerned about how we will care for our rapidly aging population.

Dementia causes the brain's neurons to deteriorate over time, so those who have it experience difficulty learning, reasoning, speaking, recalling past experiences, and controlling their emotional reactions. It is even very common for those with dementia to be unable to recognise their family members. While this can obviously be an upsetting experience for a son, daughter, or spouse, the inability to place a familiar face is nost demoralising and frustrating for the dementia sufferer. It is therefore unsurprisiong that severe anxiety goes hand in hand with dementia and that this accompanying condition often exacerbates the disorder by causing fits of psyshosis and aggression.

Because demntia victims lose the ability to make sense of their thoughts and feelings, thieir behaviour becomes unpredictable. They may experience what are known as 'catastrophic reactions', which involve sudden emotional shifts to tears or anger upon finding themselves in situations they cannot handle. To prevent them from wandering off aimlessly, attempting to drive a vehicle, or forgetting to eat, they will usually require full-time care and supervision. This becomes a necessity for people in digest food due to muscle deterioration, Frail and out of touch with reality, dementia patients become very susceptible to illness at this point and often succumb to accidents or common colds.

The burden of dementia sufferers on their family and caretakers is quite severe. The emotional toll of slowly losing a family member or spouse notwithstanding, caretakers commonly experience burnout from trying to cope with the confusion, irrationality, and sometimes abusive behaviour of their loved onces, The financial fallout can be equally as devastating given the amount of time and resources required to provide care to dementia sufferer. Hiring a full-time nurse to administer home-based care or arranging for the patient to be moved to an assisted-living facility or nursing home is a major expense which a large portion of the population simply cannot afford.

It is clear that we are not yet equipped to handle the challenges of dementia. In addition to developing more health and social services for sufferers and their families, governments are strongly encouraged to increase the public's awareness of the condition. This way, people will be more conscious of the symptoms as they get older and know when it is time to seek help. With an early diagnosis, symptoms can be controlled from the beginning, whcih can greatly prolong life. Early diagnoses also give patients the opportunity to plan for their own long-term treatment and to settle their affairs. Until a cure is found for this terrible affliction, resources that improve patients' day-to-day lives and help them live out their final days with dignity are vital.