#### Early Childhood Education and Sign Language

The ability to communicate with others is essential to the emotional development and well-being of any individual, which is why sign language is an invaluable tool for the deaf and hard of hearing. It is also becoming increasingly apparent that learning sign language offers individuals who can hear, in particular very young chidren, numerous benefits as well.

At its most basic level, teaching sign language to children instills in them an awareness of and sensitivity to deaf people. However, it also allows them to acquire a second language, which is beneficial as it is widely accepted that billingualism improves cognitive ability. It seems that this is especially the case with sign language since toddlers and babies, who are limited in their oral capacity, have a strong response to motion. As every educator and parent knows, when actions are put to a song or story, chidren tend to repeat the movements over and over. By developing muscle memory in this way, they are better able to retain the words because they associate them with specific motions.

This response is related to the theory of multiple intelligences, which suggests that people learn, remember, and understand in a variety of different way - linguistic, logical-mathematical, bodily-kinaesthetic, musical, visual, interpersonal, and intrapersonal. According to the developer of this theory, Harvard University Professor of Cognition and Education Howard Gardner, most educational curricula are based on the linguistic model, and this holds less verbally intelligent students back. When all the various intelligences are engaged, children are given more of a chance at success and a more well-rounded education. It has been found that teaching sign language to children who can hear is an excellent way to apply many of the intelligences.

For instance, by using their hands when they speak or sing - either by signing or tracing words onto a child's palm - educators can cater to linguistic and musical learners as well as bodily-kinaesthetic and visual learners. This is because students can listen to the words being spoken or sung in addition to feeling them on their skin or seeing them signed. Likewise, signing can help logical-mathematical learners because it is full of patterns that can make grammar easier for these types of learners to grasp. Interpersonal and intrapersonal learners, meanwhile, can respectively practice signing with other children and on their own.

But perhaps just as significant as making very young chidren better learners is that signing provides them with an easy way of expressing their basic wants and needs in a way that adults can understand. Cassie Hulse, the director of professional development at Thread, an early education resources centre in Alaska, states that 'Chidren are using the signs regularly, and it is very rewarding and exiciting to see them effectively communicate with us. One of the benefits is that the chidren in our for children with conditions like autism who may be able to speak but find conveying their thoughts and feelings a challenge.

Ultimately, there is nothing to lose and everything to gain by teaching a child sgin language. From encouraging them to learn, to empowering them to communicate, signing gives children a step up in life.