#### Whis is GPS?

GPS, or Global Positioning System, is a navigation and tracking system used for determining one's previse location and providing a highly accurate time reference almost anywhere on Earth. Designed and controlled by the United States Department of Defense, it was originally intended for military use, but today it is commonly used in a wide variety of civilian devices such as automobile navigation systems.

It is divied into three segments: space, control, and user. The space segment comprises the network of GPS satellites, which circle the Earth twice a day in a very previse orbit and transmit signal information. Powered by solar enegy, they are equipped with backup batteries to keep them running in the event of a solar eclipse. Small rocket boosters on each satellite keep them flying on the correct path.

The control segment consists of ground stations around the world that are responsible for monitoring the flight paths of the GPS satellites, synchronising the satellites' onboard atomic clocks and collecting and uploading data for transmission by the satellites. These ground stations utilse an automated process to measure the orbit of a satellite veers off course, the ground stations mark it 'unhealthy', which means it cannot be used until it corrects its orbit, at which point it will be marked 'healthy' again.

The user segment is comprised of GPS receivers, which are devices that can determine a user's exact location by using distance measurements from multiple satellites. A GPS receiver must be locked on to the signal of at least three satellites to calculate a two-dimensional position - showing latitude and longitude - and to track movement. With four or more satellites in view, the receiver can determine a user's three-dimensional position - latitude, longitude, and altitude. Once the user's position has been determined, a GPS unit can calculate other information, such as speed, bearing, and distance travelled.

Although GPS is now widely known as a tool for personal navigation, its applications are far more widespread. They include the fields of international trade, agriculture, d isaster relief, tectonics, robitics, and many more. Militaries around the world also use GPS for navigation and reconnaissance, but since the technology is owned and operated by the United States, they can deny use to other countries, as occurred in the 1999 Kargil War between India and Pakistan. The most prevalent use is perhaps in mobiles phones, where GPS is used not only for geo-location, but also for clock synchronisation and emergency calls.