#### Hydrothermal Vents

Prior to the 1970s, scientists assumed that no life could possibley survive the larsh environment of the ocean floor, the principle reason being lack of sunlight, which plant life requires for photosynthesis. Serious attempts to study the ocean floor did begin in the late 19th century, but researchers were feaced with several challenges, primarily the fact that the vessels they travelled in were not equipped to withstand the extreme pressure at that depth. These excursions were very dangerous, as some vessels were unable to return to the ocean surface once submerged. A solution to these problems came in the 1970s, however, with the introduction of submersibles: vehicles designed to withstand the extreme conditions of the deep ocean. With this new technology researchers have discovered vast ecosystems, the existence of which is possible because of hydrothermal vents, which cause seawater to converge with magma flowing within the Earth's core.

Hydrothermal vents exist in many of the world's oceans, and are typically found in the gaps between tectonic plates. When these tectonic plates spread apart, magna rises and cools to form new crust. As the oceanic crust stretches, it thins and large cracks appear in these chains. These cracks have created the ideal conditions for ocean water to penetrate into the depths of the Earth's crust.

Once the water travels deep into the crust it comes into contact with magma and reaches extremely high temperatures. As pressure in the crust builds, the seawater warms and then rises to the ocean floor, dissolving minerals in the Earth's crust along the way. Before the water spurts forth from the vents, its temperature can reach as high as 400 degrees Celsius, although it ends up cooling down relatively quickly as it combines with the freezing temperatures of the ocean, As the hot and cold waters meet, minerals suspended in the hot water solidify and drop onto the ocean floor as they emerge from the vent. This causes an accumulation of minerals around the vent, which results in large formations known as chimneys.

The presence of minerals around the vents on the ocean floor allows the surrounding areas to sustain ecosystems flourishing with life. Bacteria convert the minerals into energy, thus providing nutrients to the surrounding species. Scientists are fascinated by the process of converting minerals into energy in this way, known as chemosynthesis, because it is one of the few instances where energy is developed without sunlight. They are also interested in this process because one of the chief minerals converted into energy in these vents is hydrogen sulphide, a mineral highly toxic to most could shed some light on the origins of life on Earth, as it may reveal how organisms survived millions of years ago without much oxygen.