In early spring, frogs emerge from hibernation and make their way to aquatic breeding grounds. The males are the first to arrive and begin croaking out mating calls to announce their presence to females, who selct mates based on the length of their songs. Their calls also serve as a warning to other males, with the hope of discouraging potential competitors from encroaching on their space. Successful males engage with females in an embrace known as an amplexus, the goal of which is for females to release eggs into shallow, still water and for males to simultaneously fertilise then with their sperm. These eggs, of which there can be thousands, are covered with a thick, nutrient-rich jelly that swells in the water. As the parents typically abandon the eggs at this point, this substance serves as a means of protection for the fragile embryos. As the embryos grow, they turn into tadpoles and, if they are lucky, they emerge from their soft encasements; a large percentage, up to 95 per cent, of frog eggs fail to hatch due to either predation or environmental damage, such as a sudden hard freeze or drought. During the early part of their lives, tadpoles have a diet that is made up primarily of algae. They must eat voraciously at this time as they require a great deal of energy to complete that enable them to swim. However, within a few weeks, skin starts to  grow over their gills, which eventually disappear, with lungs developing in their place. After about 6 to 9 weeks, the tadpoles start eating insects and less vegetation. Their arms and legs begin to form at this point, too, and their tails become increasingly smaller before eventually being completely absorbed by their growing bodies. They then resemble miniature adults and can leave the water. Depending on how much food is  available, a frog will be fully grown betwwen 12 and 16 weeks of age and ready to mate, beginning the whole cycle once again.